Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3xa199rr3zo
File: aleyda-solis/aleyda-video-2
--------------------------------------------------

Hello everyone. Welcome to the AirOps growth leader series. I am joined today by Alita Solless. How are you today? >> I'm great. I'm great. Thank you very much for the invite and having me. I'm uh very happy and very looking forward to share with all of you today. >> Yeah, it's a huge day uh for us. We are going to have a big announcement a little bit later on that you can get early access to around AI search. So, we're excited to talk about that. But let's not forget about a tradition that we have here. If you are new here, if you could put a star in the chat, drop a star. If this is your first time, uh this is Elena's first time, so she can have a star. And if you have been with us several times, go ahead and put a rocket ship there so I know who is here. Tori, thanks for joining us again. Matthew, Bailey, welcome. First time. Oh my goodness, I just saw like eight rocket ships go past. That means you've been here uh maybe even before I was. Uh Gemma, welcome. Donna, good to see you. Um and Robin, thanks for joining us. Uh and where are you located, Elena? You're you're over in Europe, correct? >> Indeed. I am in Spain. >> Great. And your day has been going pretty good so far. Um I'm on the east coast of the US, so I'm just getting started here. >> Yes. So far so good. And uh well hopefully we'll get better after the webinar I expect. >> Yeah, for sure. Uh given another minute for everyone to come in. Um we are talking about AI search and the actions you can take, the checklist that you need to appear in LLMs to um optimize your current SEO strategies uh for AI search. Maybe some things you can keep doing, maybe some things to change, maybe some things to emphasize. So, we're gonna go ahead and jump in because we have quite a bit of information. A lady has done such a great job. I'm very excited for this. So, really, she needs no introduction. She is an international SEO consultant, founder at Elanti, maker of Learning AI search, and probably where I get the most info from Ela is SEO FOMO. Great newsletter for everyone. Please sign up if you haven't already. And of course, you may have even seen her in person. uh she's travels quite a bit, speaks very frequently, such a valuable resource to the SEO and search community. So very glad you're here. >> Thank you. Thank you very much for for having me. >> Yeah. And um a special announcement from AirOps today. You can now win AI search before your competitors. You can now track and audit your visibility in AI search across multiple different platforms. And then you can also take action with those AOPS workflows to improve your visibility and prove that pipeline impact to the seuite. We're very excited about this. So much more information is coming today on our blog, on socials, everywhere. But if you want early access, please go ahead and email us at growthairops.com. You can put AI search in the subject line, get early access, and book your strategy session today. More details coming on this throughout the webinar. So hang tight, but go ahead and get your place. We would love to see it. And so let's go ahead and move on over to our agenda. So key differences is what we're going to tackle first between search and AI search metrics. Then Elena is going to give us a great 10-step checklist for AI search that you won't want to miss. Then AI search dos and don'ts. What should you do? what should you not do when optimizing for AI search? And then again, early access to the Aerops visibility to action platform, key takeaways, and then of course some time for Q&A at the end. So Elena, are you I'm going to turn it over to you. I'm going to uh I'll if you can start to share your screen, that would be great. >> Perfect. Uh >> and you can take it away. Excellent. Allow me to share my screen. Now you're seeing the presentation, right? >> Yep. And go to slideshow. There we go. >> Yep. I am going to move it directly to the slideshow uh format. And um I wanted to take a little bit of a step back let's say uh before starting into the more actionable uh section of the presentation in order to assess uh really where where we are and how we are moving forward and in general how the shift uh that is happening from traditional to AI search is uh is moving and what changes and what not because based on that is how we are going to be able to optimize for it and and keep things that we have been already doing and we'll continue to work well and what actually is going to change and uh now that we need to also optimize for these other platforms right so u from what I have seen um so far there are actually three key areas of differences here uh between AI search and traditional search search behavior query handling optimization target authority and popularity signals and the results presentation. So I I I love to do mockups in order to to provide and visualize clearly uh the changes and I did this uh to compare traditional search versus AI search right traditional search usually and I know that this had has been evolving and continues to evolve but in general if we compare the queries that are search and traditional search versus AI ones they are short keyword-based one-off queries also with a high navigational intent. We know how uh many of our users the audience uh use uh the the 10 blue links as if they are many times the the bridge to the internet that that had happened a lot so far with a lot of branded oriented and navigational related queries, right? and and yes it's true that over the years uh there had been also an evolution from two or three keyword terms to uh longer terms more long tail indeed however the type of the uh the conversational queries conversational based queries that we see in I search are also different in intent and in nature they are multi-turn queries with a high task oriented nature um there is the subset of of queries that we hadn't seen in the past. So for example, if we if we think about it, we have like an overlap of queries of the type of I need guidance to learn AI search optimization for example uh that we see in both AI search and traditional search platforms. uh there are other more let's say uh keyword based uh head terms branded navigational type of uh queries that we have seen more uh and keep seeing uh a lot more in traditional search like learn AI search or using it to jump directly to the URL of of of a website the homepage of the website many times but then this new subset of queries uh that users hadn't searched search in the past were traditional search results because uh the the functionality was not not there. uh and now they are searching for those like please help me creating a detailed six months AI optimization road map for example uh much much longer tail uh much more uh task oriented and uh the the one that literally are requested to an AI assistant not necessarily only a discovery channel right so it's important to assess that it's not one or the other indeed there's a complement here and there's an evolution taking place then We also have query handling, right? Um, and it is like the single match query of traditional search versus the query fan out uh that we discover when Google disclose and launch uh about how AI mode works. uh which is pretty much uh the generation of multiple subqueries uh related and connected with the main term with the main query that is being searched in order to be able to provide a much more comprehensive answer. An answer uh that touches different angles of the main query, right? And uh that I there were many great um examples given but the the one that I really like is okay may maybe you search for be beginners paddle tips for example in traditional search and that doesn't mean that you will only get uh pages that literally talk about beginners paddle tips but yes pages that fulfill on an overall basis let's say thisformational type of intent right uh getting started with paddle for example or a little bit more comprehensive than just beginner paddle tips type of guides but but yes those that pretty much match this intent overall intent of of the query that you have searched however nowadays we see if we request or we search for prompts like give me beginners paddle tips uh the type of uh queries that will be generated that we can see in uh the through the chrome dev tools across many different extension chrome extensions that have been also lately released in order to identify what are those what are those subqueries that are generated with through uh by by chat GBT we can see a variations like paddle advice for new players or beg beginners paddle mistakes or uh paddle surf technique beginners so all characteristic connected characteristics to the main queries to ultimately uh generate and identify by better snippets or passages to synthetize and generate an answer that ultimately is comprehensive and fulfill those needs of of users. Right? So indeed there's definitely that and then also this connects very well with the next one optimization target. Traditional search is not that Google didn't have the sophistication to understand semantic relevance. No, no, no. It was there because I have seen this also so far unfortunately being shared like oh it's like if we went from a word of traditional search um connecting like like generic keywords a very basic uh match right with with the page. No, we know that it hasn't been like that since a long long long time ago. Um however what actually changes from an optimization target and and a um content relevance standpoint is how this is match and the level of where this is matched with traditional search we know that this is page level relevance again uh beginner pips as a as a search query we know that Google will look for a page that fulfills that need at a page level and usually all of the URLs that we'll see in the SERs uh will be those that overall at a pitch level uh fulfill that particular intent of that query, right? That help to fulfill that need. However, with AI search, uh this happens at a at a passage or chunk level of relevance. So there might be pages that are not necessarily talking or covering anything about beginner paddle tips, but maybe this is a thread in which someone provides uh some sort of paddle tips, but the actual thread was about um what are the best the best um ways that people have improved their their paddle games overall. not necessarily beginners but there's an answer that pretty much focus on the beginner's audience. So uh in that particular case AI search can identify that particular chunk and passage of information and use it to for the for the answer right and uses as one of the sources for the answers if identified that it will uh fulfill if it correlates and and confirms the information that uh they see across many other different uh pieces of content or pages that they have uh identified. and u what we is is authoritative. It might have been written by someone who has a lot of experience. uh so they decide to use it as part of the answer and when we take a look at which are the sources of the answers we will see a thread that is we have never ran necessarily in the position of Google but because it's too broad right but yes but they have it has a passage it has a particular chunk level of information that really connects with that and has been used for that so different levels like same principles but different levels of of matching h then the alter and popularity seniors. And again, this is uh nothing completely extremely new, but the ways that this is apply this has been applied or these have shifted and the way that they are applied uh is real, right? Like in traditional search uh links and engagement based popularity at a domain and pitch level is the one that has been uh taken into account. We know that there's much more just in the number of of backlinks the the the authority and the relevance of the sources for example um have a senior have a place have a role uh very important the engagement of uh the user also with the website has a role and so and and especially in local SEO in certain context citations mentions uh from certain sites uh local directories for example local platforms uh also had a important weight, right? But we know that citations per se were not necessarily the most important factor popularity factor for traditional search. Uh on the other hand, now with AI search, we have Mason mention and citations and entity base authority at passage and concept level taking a much stronger let's say role. uh we understand and we know that the times that you are mentioned as a reference as a as an entity connected with the particular topic for which the user is researching through the platform right it has an an important role as well you don't need uh a backlink or a direct backlink um that is a that is follow in order to pass uh authority or popularity anymore although that will be great as is not the only way um and not the most important way necessarily. Right? So there is this let's say rebirth or or or refine or enhance importance of mentions and citations that wasn't there in traditional search and then of course the result presentation that again this is a little bit of a chicken and egg with because the the format and the UI changes so much that it also incentivize uh a change in the behavior of the user. So this connects these two connect with each other too. Um and in traditional search rank list of multiple link pages you had different options uh more and more wizard features as well of course but yes you had certain limited number of options that you could choose from. Now with AI search you have a single synthetized answer with mentions and secondary links to sources because yes we have the links at the bottom in the sidebar in certain scenarios you through the the the the content as well through the answer but that is not the primary let's say lay layer of of of um of outcome that is expected from the user because across so many you know very share of the queries and the prompts. The because of the intent of this uh they can be and should be fulfilled directly just by the output just by the answer without having to engage much further and having to go directly to the links in order to get uh final response or that will provide satisfaction for the user. Right? So the expectations and the metrics uh and the goals should change and should shift accordingly. Right? So as you can see saying that nothing changes is um is too naive unfortunately and change saying that everything changes is also not necessarily uh 100% true there's an overlap for sure um and I I can see that for a long long time even if Google ends up switching completely to AI AI mode and now they are they starting just to test uh a few days ago in in the in the US their new web guy format that pretty much is a hybrid of AI mode with the SERs format providing summaries of of the SERs. um even if they end up moving forward with that type of approach and with that format not necessarily AI mode in any case this are two type of searches let's say that will uh let's say need uh a balance from each other and that we will need to take care of of both for a little bit I think and um so an extreme extreme shift uh not necessarily happen from one day to another and is important to let's say open up and expand our skills in order to take care of both of both and uh also identify the opportunities uh to grow further and to expand and diversify accordingly. I think that for a long long time in SEO we were complaining of having all of our X in a single bag. Well, that won't necessarily be there anymore, right? With AI search, I see this as yet another platform. a platform that allow allows us to even if not rank in the first position in Google uh well to get visibility in different ways and and have an influence with our target audience in different ways as well. So how do you optimize uh your content for AI search? So here's our checklist that I will keep updating and I see that it's evergreen and evolving because of course of all of the changes releases uh evolution that uh we see at the moment but I believe that these are very ingrained in principles that we have seen so far that uh works well in search as a discovery platform independently of the flavor right whether if if it is for Google, if it is for Tik Tok, if it is for any other platform out there, uh the principles are the ones that let's say matter and in the case of AI, this is the blend or this is the flavor that he has taken right and I have tried to provide actionable steps for each one of them and the first one is research and assess your AI search platform audience behavior which again is Not not nothing necessarily new and is important to uh do at every single platform that we start working with because understanding our your how your audience searches specifically uh is fundamental in order to identify how much uh of a difference there is uh what is the difference in intent as we mentioned before there might be an overlap but yes there there's a subset of queries and topics that might necessarily only be seen in uh AI search platforms as well that we will need to target. Uh and this will allow us to identify well what are those qu questions that are actually meaningful from a business standpoint that are on topic that are on brand uh that our competitors might already have some visibility for but we haven't yet and we need to start leveraging right so for that um certain best practices here identify the AI search platform uh that your audience uses because uh Well, I have seen quite a bit of a difference between countries. I have clients that many times target different uh loces uh over the world and depending also on the industry. Certain industry are much more techy than others and use more chatbt. Uh in others like certain websites I've seen quite a bit of traffic being refer and generated by perplexity even more than chbpt. So yes, it's important and it's u fundamental to start validating this very well especially now uh with AI mode being released more and more across different markets is is critical and also I believe that the search behavior that we will see in AI mode uh will be not necessarily the same type of search behavior again that we see in Chad GBT because of how integrated AI mode is at the end of the day with traditional search with Google uh which is different um the entry point is different the one that we see in chd. So the audience in chipd much might do much more tax task oriented type of queries and intent and with AI mode it might continue to be still very quite informationational and commercially driven right so it is critical to start tracking uh the traffic with uh J4 in case you haven't yet identify the most popular and relevant queries prompts used by your audience to search for products and services across different channel uh in in particular um and the content that attracts more of those uh different type of traffic across platforms, right? Is and we will see that a lot and I I've seen this being true for a lot of websites. A lot of the websites that are getting traffic so far from AI search platforms are getting it from the homepage, from the help center, not necessarily with the typical category page or or product page, but uh or solutions page, but uh from the with the homepage because of the brand and how many citations and references they get from the brand and the information, the overall information that they provide at the homepage. uh and then help center um the community if if they have a lot of community information and forums a lot from from there as well because uh many times the 10 of the promps connect very well with that information that they have across all of these pages. So it's important to compare where is the traffic going from AI platforms versus the ones uh that you traditional have work in your web architecture for traditional search because they might not necessarily be the same right um so based on that we'll be able to identify and uh establish differences commonalities and help to uh have a good input in our AI search strategy accordingly. to avoid wasting our efforts. So use your analytics again identify the most important AI search platforms. These are things that we need to do. Identify the most important uh popular prompts referring uh your site to from AI platforms uh using thirdparty tools and we will see how air ops will help with this as well. Research the most popular prompts related to your brand products or service topics as well for which you might not necessarily be uh shown completely at this point. Not necessarily so far. uh and and also the ones for which your competitors might be showing that are not necessarily brand oriented but might be worthy for you to to target as well. So a little bit of a benchmark there is important and then what it is critical to avoid is ignore referral traffic from AI sources. you really need to track and unfortunately especially what Google hasn't made uh a great work uh so far unfortunately with any filters uh we we are still waiting with Google search console to have any sort of information or filter in in specific in particular to segment and to to to establish specifically uh for sure the the behavior the behavior of of the prompts from AI mode for example the ones that are triggered with AI overviews uh with Chad GBT and we love to complain from Google but Chad GBT they haven't released anything uh for website owners right so unfortunately I see that there's also this lack of of data so far hopefully that changes in the future but so far uh this is a challenge it's a big challenge but is important to understand how is we shouldn't assume that behavior is the same and we we shouldn't fail to analyze competitors also disability in order to have a little bit a good benchmark of where we are based on based on them right so again even if we don't have specific prompts data we can um do a little bit of validation of what is uh getting triggered with AI overviews what are the longer longer tail uh type of queries even that we see with Google so far and take it from from there when playing around also validating directly uh and taking action directly with the most popular uh AI search platforms that we work with uh thankfully uh there are more and more solutions for this like with air ops uh this part of the big announcement. So this is a little bit of a sneak peek uh that they will do today. H as you can see they will uh will start to provide information about the top queries the top prompts that and what are their different types what what are the intents that what stage of the funeral they are the consideration awareness of decisions stage um what are the topics topics we know that prompts unlike keywords right much more difficult to specifically categorize and they can vary a lot uh they are not worded exactly in the same way every single time. So what are the top topics for which you are shown and which are not right and and where there are more opportunities for you to move forward where it will compensate for you to start creating more content in order to surface more often or in a better way um with the right sentiment uh because you are not shown or you are not shown in such a positive note necessarily so far right so there's definitely that first step then secondly optimize for content AI crawability and indexibility. And this is something that is a principle that we have in traditional search. But here we need to take a further step to understand uh the specific behavior of AI bots uh crawling and indexibility because um in test again and again in the last few months we have seen how uh AI search platforms unlike the bots of Google for example or being they don't render JavaScript client side JavaScript. So if you over rely for your navigation or make content on client side render JavaScript well it's unfortunate and you will likely hurt the chances of this content uh to be shown in the answers of AI platforms. uh that is very very important to validate to double check also if you are allowing the AI platforms bots to crawl completely all the content that you want to surface also you might want to allow them to crawl certain areas that even with the Google for the Google bot you didn't before because that will have generated for the Google bot content duplication issues because of how Google works traditional uh search results work but for AI bots Well, since they don't rank pages, you want to allow them to crawl those internal search results, for example, on your website to identify that information uh that might be useful uh to obtain answers or to provide answers to use uh to train uh them for answers that you didn't for Google because for Google that will have been a waste uh for them and and only to find content duplication uh and that's it. but not necessarily for AI bots for example. So this is uh fundamental also don't assume that oh I am allowing uh the Google bot etc. I should very likely allowed uh so far AI boats no go and take a look at your CDN if there's anything configured there that you might not necessarily know that you uh are blocking for some reason because of uh some security configurations and so on and you are not allowing AI boats to crawl uh the the content. So uh again like for example here uh content that you will create HTML based content again go let's go back to basics web standards allowing click crawlers in robot CXE AI bots by listed in firewall CDN rules uh serverside rendering not overusing uh JavaScript for navigation or core content and no blocking also in in in meta tags also a good use of canonical tags internal links crawl are crawable and descriptive with href based uh tax as well. So technical SEO I believe is one of those areas that need to be well rethought on their importance even further uh with AI search and if you thought that oh all of our web architecture is well optimized for Google well it's time to do a little bit of a an audit again to ensure that that still that's still true for AI boat as well. So a bad example here you're blocking a crawlers or you are only client side uh JavaScript rendering uh to access some content or you are um well no indexing sort type of content because you thought that for Google it will cause content duplication issues uh or cannibalization issues but for AI bots this is content that might be actually useful because it provides some additional information and there is not let's a uh something negative or a negative outcome by allowing AI bots to access that additional information, right? And for that we already have in SEO a lot of crawlers that simulate the behavior of uh the different versions of of um crawlers that search engines use is important that we besides simulating the behavior of AI boats we also go and take a look at the actual log files of our servers or the CDNs. uh a lot of SEO tools allow integration with them the more enterprise level in order to see the activity from the different AI search platforms and what they crawl what they don't crawl if we are actually allowing them to see all of our content or not uh showing a screenshot here of one of them there are many but I believe that is fundamental to avoid assuming that all is good just because so far it has been good with the technical SEO configuration that we have had for traditional search engines but we need to make sure that we also complying with all of this uh with AI boats in particular and topical red and depth optimization um and uh as we saw one of the differences is that AI search platform rake complex queries into multiple related subqueries facets angles intents covering let's say a topic in a very comprehensive way in order to provide a very comprehensive answer as well that are executed in parallel to retrieve again the most relevant content for each aspect, right? And and to use that for the for for the answers to synthesize that information from the diverse sources, right? H and that is why is even more important than ever to have comprehensive coverage ideally through topic clusters for each one of the relevant topics that our brands are about that are actually relevant for our brands and our business. So this is again not completely new and it's not that we didn't wanted this for traditional search engines. with it. But the implications of this because of how query found out works and explore different user intents makes it even more important for AI search on one hand. Then on the other I believe that fortunately because of the way that many of us tried to leverage in traditional search again uh going for very popular topics right many times not necessarily topics that were very tightly connected with our product or our business intent or that weren't necessarily on topic right uh because unfortunately websites were chasing just traffic many times not necessarily that meaningful uh we saw how for example these were done in a way that or this that was disconnected for the business was in the blog post for example and we saw I don't know if you remember but specifically in uh the Google core update from um December last year how many very authoritative websites for very strong brands even drop in traffic for some of their articles in the blog post because they have created content as part of their uh content strategy uh covering content for which they were not necessarily relevant. They these were they were very disconnected topic wise from what we offer. Right? My point here, the hop and spoke approach, typical cluster approach that literally what it does is to tell you, okay, you need to create a comprehensive pillar page which is the hub and create then for your subtopics for each one of your uh sub areas that you want to actually cover because these are topics that are connected to what you do with your business. specific pages uh cluster pages that will cover those topics. What is important here is that these topics are actually connected with what you do that make sense for the customer journey that uh answer actual queries, actual questions that you have identified that your customers and users actually ask about your brand. So it fulfill a need because it's indeed not a trivial work to create this, right? is important to invest a lot on original expert-driven experience first content right so for example a good example of here of a pillar page for if you if you want to uh make one of technical SEO right technical SEO is pillar page a core aspect of technical SEO and we have crawlability we have indexibility we have rendering in the case of uh for for JavaScript uh optimization and then for every cluster page we'll We have a cluster fish for clarity crawlability. We have we'll have another one for indexibility. We'll have another one for rendering. We'll have another for co vital. We have another one for internal linking and so so every subtopic will need to have a single one. And again not completely new but becomes much more critical critical here because of how the query find out um technique uh works and how that is used for AI search. So this is good because a pillar page summarizes uh the facets and links to in-depth resources and this in-depth resources will be the like likely the ones that will uh AI platforms will use in order to identify this particular topics topics information to provide a uh to synthesize and and and to be used for answers. Right? And bad example would be to have a single shallow page trying to cover it all without really going in depth and providing information that is actually worthy to be cited is actually meaningful is actually unique is actually relevant for your brand right no internal linking no dedicated URLs for individual to subtopics everything in a single page without proper structure yeah it's unlikely and much more difficult will make much more difficult for uh platforms to identify that as a good source of information and adopt many free resources and tools right now in order also to try to simulate this query finding out coverage. One of this is uh the one that I'm showing on screen here that you can use uh very quickly just double validate that be besides the the content platforms that also provide uh traditional features for this but I wanted to offer something free uh free resource that you can go and and and check out espec particularly because it connects well with the typical queries generated with the fanout technique and then optimize for trunk level retrieval. Again, nothing completely completely new because this has to do a lot with readability, right? And uh there were quite a few comments out there when this was announced uh as let's say one of those areas of optimizations and that we needed to take care of and and people were like oh you you were not doing this for traditional search results. Yes, but the implication of this and how uh because of how AI search platforms work and grab information, we want to make it even easier, right? Uh the the stakes are higher. Uh the the influence of this is even more important, right? So breaking content into passages or chunks that are easier to retrieve for AI platforms um for the synthesis process it well it's it it it's this even more meaningful than ever right that's why you should optimize each section of your content as a standalone snippet that is uh relevant by itself so each one of your uh snippets or paragraph for example should be independently understandable. able and meaningful. Uh keep passages also semantically tight and self-contained as well. So uh each paragraph or a couple of paragraph together for specific concepts that you want to explain or offering. One idea per section also is a good way to easily uh move forward with it using structure and well formatted HTML with clips or headings also for every subtopic as well. And this is a good example. You have a subheading for what is technical SEO. than a paragraph that explain at a high level uh well what what what it is about it works well in itself as a concept right uh well one key concept self-contained and understandable structure with a clear heading a concise explanation then a bad example would will be this one right that uh tries to cover too much and and too little uh content uh not in depth uh not self-contained too many concepts too many entities is in too little text right so not semantically tied and unfortunately very shallow also side I will say uh so again many resources out there for me in this case I I love it when when you are working with a great copywriter uh who knows a lot about readability and a lot of content tools also provide like readability analysis and validation uh but there are also free tools now that allow us to uh chunk uh the the content that you can copy paste and they validate for you. It's like is this well structured uh in a way that we know that it is easy to to to use by AI search platforms like the one that I am um showing here that is completely free by Dean as well and the >> yeah real fast if if you could just do maybe the title slides and maybe we could go in a little bit deeper uh some other time. I know we're kind of we got about 20 minutes left. So, just want to make sure we get through the the top 10 points here. >> Oh, okay. So, do you want me to skip all of this already or? >> I mean, if you could just do maybe like the titles of just like the key last five points. >> Yeah, exactly. >> Sure thing. >> Thank you. >> More than happy. >> Okay. So, the next ones will be optimize for answer synthesis. uh because we know that uh well AI are changing synthesize multiple chunks from different sources into a coherent response. So summarize complex ideas. Clearly it is very connected with the one before. Uh use natural language Q&A format can uh be used very well for this. Flavor pain factual non-promotional tone that is also important for authority. Using structured data those also uh helps a lot. Well, you have here a couple of examples that you can check out later on, but because of timing issues, uh I can't go in depth so far. But again, we have a lot of content tools that provides good um well feedback for this in order to make sure and as you can see this is very connected with uh the chunkability let's say of the content that we saw before and optimize for citation worthiness. uh that again this again EAT principles this is nothing completely new but gets even higher a higher importance here because of the role of citations right so using a specific up-to-date verifiable claims showing authorships and credential for eat seniors I remember so many debates and back and forth regarding oh if eat was a ranking factor or not like and issue now does it matter Not necessarily you. What is important here is to showcase to your audience, to your customers that this is worthy to site. Refresh content regularly. And again, if you can use the outer organization structure data, include citations, links to studies and to expert um original sources of the information that you're showcasing, the easiest it will be to get. So again, different tools that you can use to validate this very very easily. So you can make sure that yeah your content is easier to site from your own source and this is the next level let's say of for that optimization is optimizing for content authoritiveness in so as a let's say byproduct of you doing the a good work before is that you should also get cited by third party uh websites and and other brands as well but you can also influence that by doing a good work in the distribution of your own content, doing digital PR, securing coverage in industry and expert publications, promoting your content across relevant thirdparty channels, publishing original research reports, conducting surveys. Unfortunately, a lot of uh businesses starting to question how uh important it is to invest informational content top of the funeral content because of the great coupling and I will say it is critical because of this still being critical besides uh the role that this has from a um well customer decision on buying from you or not of course and and this has to do with authoritiveness uh ultimately again it's not only about providing EAT signals uh but making you look and the authority that you are in your field right and and to being endorsed uh with citations with backlinks and so on with coverage from publications from um communities and platforms where your audience are this is fundamental and again our ops as we can see here has now uh functionality that allows you to see this information that so this particular bit will become more uh even easier to implement and optimizing for multimodal support again nothing new images videos are important but I would say because of the challenge in AI platforms to identify let's say uh crawl and to index a lot of these um configurations it is even more important than ever to make it super uh easy for them to crawl it to access it avoid any sort of JavaScript only rendering or lazy loading or implementation um using also semantic HTML. It seems a little bit of a something from the past. Accessibility here is important which has other goals and implications as well but is even important even more important here because of this a good all description avoiding again JavaScript render only content or lazy loading uh pages uh or or images or thumbnails for your pages it's fundamental and um to start wrapping up optimizing for personalization resilient content in this case it's because of how AI platforms will tend to personalize the experience based on the interactions and the contextual signals. Uh so again one of the things here that I always tell to my clients now is to make it easier for uh the users to engage with your content because that will that will make them to be cited and to refer at least improve the chances to be referred in the future again. Right? So to incentivize this engagement, I provide here a few examples and here a couple of screenshots um asking for a query like a question regarding specific topic what one at at the US level and another one at the Atlanta level. Let's imagine that uh ch in this case can join me. I have had to specify the location in this case. If they were able to geocallate me, if I if I search for near me or if I didn't had even to specify my location, they will hard refer me to the same player here to the same website as a source at at US at the US level and the city level in Atlanta. And if I search from New York or I say search from LA or any other city, it will refer me the same brand, the same player. Why? Because they have location pages. So think about what are the different angles and the different areas and how you can engage your users in different ways based on the personalization they will have from AI platforms on one hand and of course to monitor your content. Last but not least, uh the performance that each one of these have the the audience AI search behavior AI search presence versus competitors not only if if you are shown but if you are shown in a positive light the the sentiment if you are shown along with a link if there any links in there or not because that uh let's say maximize the chances for traffic uh the AI search traffic activity within your website already the crawling and indexing behavior over time again and air ops again uh they are uh releasing one part part of the releases that they have is about this to allow you to monitor the evolution over time that your website has and how it is surfaced um for meaningful queries that you track across the different platforms and I will allow them to talk more about this but as you can see all of the different points angles um validations to be made some of them more new than others that already existed for traditional search but as you can see with this extra layer let's say of focus that is much more com meaningful now because of the main characteristics of AI search platforms I hope that this has been meaningful I have created also some resources that are free that you can use this AI search optimization checklist is available as a Google sheet that you can download if you want I created also a GPT completely for free uh that you can use uh to obtain to validate much more easily with ch directly for this and also the learning.com website where I have uh tons of resources, reliable resources for AI search optimization that is completely for free that you can uh start using. Thank you very much. >> Yes, that was fantastic. We definitely want some time for questions as well because we have a lot uh coming in. Um Nicole from AirOps who leads our product marketing is going to tell everyone about what's going on today at AirOps. Huge launch for us. Awesome. Thanks Josh. Thanks Elena. That was really fantastic. Excited to get into questions. Um so today, very exciting. Everything that we just discussed um in the webinar, we have available in early access. As we mentioned at the top of the webinar, you can reach out to us uh about getting a demo to join this early access program. But I'm going to run through a really quick demo for you guys. So what you're seeing now is the overview page of our AI search visibility insights. So this is going to be the dashboard where you're really able to understand how you're showing up in AI search. Um with brand visibility being our northstar metric. So we run a deep research workflow to understand what are the questions where you're showing up, where you're not showing up, and we benchmark that against your competitors just to understand what are the prior what are the opportunities across all of your content and your social conversations that you really need to prioritize to get ahead of your competitors to be the first to show up in those answers. Um, so like I said, how you are benchmarking against your competitors is extremely important. It's not just the questions that you're showing up in. Um, we also look at how you're being cited and where you're being cited. So, just to overview again, mentions are going to be anytime AI search is mentioning your brand. Citations are where you're going to see those actual links be included. And this can be everything across your first party pages to thirdparty pages that are citing your brand. Um, and then of course we look at your first-party pages. So, how are all of your pages performing in AI search? I'm going to jump into my favorite part of the dashboard and what I think is the most important. And this is going to be our actions layer. And so, as I mentioned, we surface to you four different ways to take action based off of the data that you just saw. So, it's one thing to look at data, it's another to go actually action on it, which you can do all in one platform with Aerops. And so you have four opportunities. You can refresh your existing first-party pages. You can create new pages. You can look at those third-party domains where your competitors are being mentioned but you're not. And you can reach out to those thirdparty web hosts. And you can also, and this is my favorite, you can look at the Reddit and Quora uh threads where again your competitors are being mentioned and you're not. And you can actually run an AOPS workflow to go and respond with a baked response based off of your brand in these threads. And so going back to how important it is to understand in this race to win AI search how your competitors are performing, we not only look at where your competitors are showing up and you're not, but we look at how you are showing up compared to your competitors. And that's how we surface these opportunities, these mention gaps. because it's one thing to be mentioned, it's another thing to be mentioned positively. So, we're going both for getting mentioned ahead of your competitors and also being mentioned more positively than your competitors. And all of these opportunities that we surface and we tell you to prioritize are enriched with research that we are running on the back end as to what these AI agents want. So, I know that Elena spoke spoke to this that it's going to be different than traditional SEO. Aerops is enriching every single action with the most relevant thing to do based off of what these agents want to see and read. Awesome. All right, I'm gonna go hand it off to you, Jos, for Q&A because I think we're running out of time now. >> Thank you so much. >> Really fast. Sorry, Josh. Really fast. Just a reminder, you can reach us reach out to us with the link that's in the chat to book time to see a demo for this. >> Yeah, very excited about all of this for sure. big day on bringing visibility to action. And now jumping into the Q&A, Alita, a few questions came in about just where do we start with so many of those items that you had on your AI search checklist like what are you thinking is like around some of the most important there? >> Yeah, I I will start with two. uh thankfully you now provide a a solution for uh the first one uh understanding better the way that do AI search audiences search like the the behavior that they have and in these new platforms that can be uh quite a bit different and how your content is surfaced there how your content is being showed there because maybe you're position one across so many of the very relevant in popular topics in traditional search uh results right now in Google but that's not true in uh in uh chatgpt for example so and might be different with AI mode as well so it is important that uh you start double checking that uh audience search behavior and how you are performing and for those prompts from those queries that are actually meaningful for your business in this platforms on one hand then on the other the other hand the other other thing that I think is fundamental is what I mentioned regarding crawability and indexability. Go on and on talk with your um DevOps with your development team uh with to make sure to validate that your website is really crawable. H it it takes my attention because there have been so much of a bus with LLM txt lately. Google saying on one hand that they won't take into take them into account because they are not necessarily that useful or meaningful for them. Of course, they have all the the data they have they are the ones with with the biggest index out there, right? But that is not necessarily true with this new pl new new AI platforms nonetheless, right? But rather than creating uh uh txt file trying to work around good crawlability indexibility go and fix your actual crawlability and indexibility because the implications are are major right and also the other very important point uh besides uh allowing or making sure that AI boats actually are able to crawl your content is if you over rely on uh client side rendering with JavaScript, >> right? try to move at least to to a hybrid approach pre-rendering or some sort of configuration even if you cannot completely migrate right now because that is an untrivial type of thing to do but at least that because otherwise unfortunately you might be leaving a lot on the table and I will recommend you to do a at least a little bit of a test or a pilot project with a few pages if you cannot do this at scale necessarily but yes to do that as well >> I know it's a question everyone has uh because I saw it lm's text thumbs up, thumbs down. Is it necessary? Not necessary, just straight answer. >> We need to understand that Google at the end of the day, they they what they say might be true for them. But and until today, potentially until today, until a few months ago, that was more than enough because they were the only search engine pretty much or where most of our traffic came from. But now that is diversifying and uh and might be good for them but not necessarily good for publicity or for uh GBT and other players. So I will say if it is something that the effort is very low for you to do I might want to go and test it out go ahead and do it. it it won't hurt again and not expect much from Google uh because of what they have mentioned that it doesn't have a role for them but maybe for other players that it they will because they haven't say nothing against it on one hand and then on the other hand I can see how much of a bigger role it might have for them because they don't have all the all the data that already has right so yeah >> right >> and then maybe taking a thousand foot view stepping back a bit one question that came in was just like how should SEO teams prioritize AI search versus kind of like traditional search and what they're doing and like how do we gauge that tradeoff at this particular moment. >> Yes. So I I two things the current let's say the current impact and we know that this is changing so fast. So right now I have heard some and even myself right if you had asked me two months ago I would say but it's still 1% of the traffic only. It's true but I have seen that 1% two months ago becoming 2% or three or four in some cases. So it's it's it's it growing so fast on one hand and then also I think it's a disservice to the platform in itself to only consider traffic as a metric because as we have seen the the metrics that we use and the goals that we pursue might be different because not all of a high share of the outcome of the engagement of the users are might not necessarily end up in direct traffic as it did with additional search. So even of from a visibility standpoint, a reputation standpoint, a share of voice uh in in a major platform that is used. So better to take a look at the usage that shpt and new AI platforms are are getting and how this is growing more and more. So I will say um it would be a disservice to just say okay 1% of the traffic so 1% of resources and that's it. No. Uh think about the potential the growth rate the the trend the over time and I would say potentially yes if if you will continue investing on traditional search excellent 80% but then 20% uh and the potential to grow for more to revise in the next three months or in the next six months because this is changing so far for AI search but at least for the fundamentals of AI search what I uh mentioned before to understand the search behavior and to see how that might impact your current content strategy. Many times it won't necess >> imply a complete change right of what you have already planned but best to take additional topics or or or areas or criteria into account for what you're already doing. um for for for technical configuration technical related configuration I'm pretty sure that you will necessarily need to rewrite or recode your website from scratch again just for AI search right or AI platform but yes to prioritize certain things that maybe were in the backlog and you hadn't prioritized because they were not that meaningful necessarily for um the Google bot because of their capacity to render JavaScript but that is not true for platforms and you might want to rep prioritize that again so these type of things So I will say that uh it's important that we allocate at least for the fundamentals like important investment let's say to make sure that at least that works well. >> Yes. Do you have a couple more minutes or do you need to go? >> More more than happy to continue answering. >> Okay great. Um let's do a few more then here. Um how are you thinking about mentions and citations and how they relate to entity connections uh to the topic? That was a question that came in from from Eric. That that that is a great question and in fact I believe that that is also true more today not necessarily 10 years ago but today in terms of backlinks also for traditional search uh well relevance here is important topical relevance is is critical right uh and we we saw that with the example that I mentioned regarding money websites that are authorities in their field uh dropping after some core updates uh from Google because well the the the content that they were previously being ranked for and a lot of the backlinks also uh going to this page well we're not necessarily on topic on what they actually did right I believe that we should take that as a base and take it to the next level with AI search because of the level of sophistication of entity recognition um uh semantic uh recognition as well so uh if you're already doing for example uh digital PR are. That is great because that tends to go well very in hand in general to what you do uh with the core values and the core uh functionalities of your products or services as well and usually tend to come from very authoritative sources as well not non-meaning sources or platforms. Um the challenge for that for for SEO it used to be that usually many times didn't uh generate a backlink direct follow backlink back right as a as an outcome which doesn't necessarily matter anymore for AI search platforms right so uh if there is a strategy that I think that it works very well it will be that but then also what is what is citable or worthy to be cited in in in your website right that is a question that I always ask uh clients and before what is linkable now it's what is citable as well what are the resources what are the insights what is the industry data that you can share the knowhow that you can share uh to well establish yourself as an authority that is worthy to be referred to be cited also in communities right I have quite a few clients especially in the SAS sector where that they work a lot with um the developer communities they have some uh dev rails uh type of position working with influencers even in YouTube showcasing how they use our tool and so on that is great working with community and investing in community uh is the type of information that gets cited a lot because it's human generated is human first it's experience first and usually it's connect it's very relevant it's connected with what you actually do um and many times comes from highly authoritative sources of from your industry like the more the better, right? But yes, I I believe that it this two type of actions community and and digital PR and then of course the resources that you can create that are evergreen that are very connected with what you do, the insights and the stats from your industry or the knowhow that you have obtained across well the your ongoing uh activities with your clients. you you can let's say reuse them, reformat them, repurpose them in a way that actually get uh this well-deserved citations. Great. I I love that in so many different ways. Um Aerops has some new capabilities where you can see your community mentions, you can do your outreach and also see like queries that are coming in from like Chad GPT and some of these other LLMs. Final question to kind of think about this as we go back to our directors, as we go back to our CMOs from the teams here, as we even go back to our clients. What should we say to all of those kind of people who are asking us questions about AI search? How are we communicating this about just like big picture? Um what can we say right now about about this transition that the seuite would help the seauite as far as like pipeline, search, traffic, those type of things? My recommendation is to see it as a let's say evolution of a platform that is not that is going to go away but will collie for a while at least um different interfaces uh same principles but apply in different ways for which you will need resources and flexibility to do uh a few new things and and and potentially yeah some extra budget for for that as well. also for new tools that will allow you to monitor that additional activity as well. Uh but my recommendation will be is like oh we stop doing what we were doing before and we start now shifting everything to this but because unfortunately if you do that well the the outcome and and the impact won't be there very likely in in the next few months but there will be a the shift that we have been seeing so far in the last few months little by little and what is important is uh to communicate how critical it is to be the to to to establish yourself uh faster than your competitors. Uh to to get and to build to have that base that uh these platforms will tend to site more and more in the future as well. And that doesn't happen from one day to another like creating a topic cluster for example for uh the your your main different product lines things like that that you don't do that in one month right um and you you need resources and no etc. So it is important to have that sort of buy in on one hand but also provide um good expectations that they shouldn't necessarily expect double traffic entry months or something like that because unfortunately that will backlash quite quite easily right also the expectations regarding the type of goals and metrics won't necessarily be traffic or direct traffic and and then we can talk about the challenges of traffic attribution here right uh and and conversion attribution more than traffic uh because here the outcome won't necessarily be direct traffic but yes share of voice and share of mind versus your competitors uh decision makers one of the best way I have seen so far in the uh to influence them is to show you versus your competitors do a little bit of a benchmark and how it looks for many very meaningful popular topics that you really want to be showcased for so show that and uh to explain like Yeah, this is becoming little by little uh the next uh popular discovery platform after Google. So we need to be there and uh this how we look versus our our competitors not so good, right? So we need these resources accordingly. >> Great note to end on to think about. This is different. Lots of things are the same as as Alita went through and showed those differences. Great resources. Of course, uh we will be sending out a recording of this. We will be sending out uh a link to Elita's resources on the checklist. Uh feel free to connect with Elita here. We have all of our all of her social connections. Be sure and sign up for SEO FOMO. Great resource. I'm sure she would love to dive into a few of these questions that that we may have too. Um and then yes, email us growthairops.com to get early access to the visibility to action layer. Lots to take in for the rest of the day. Thank you so much, Alita. This is a lot to go through, a lot of action steps that we can all take. Appreciate your time so much. >> Thank you for for the opportunity and have a great day to everybody. >> Yes. Thanks everyone. and we will see you next time.