Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEtXlk0XTsI
File: aleyda-solis/aleyda-video-1
--------------------------------------------------

The latest news in SEO and AI search with today's SEO to London read going through the top stories from the latest edition of the SEO foromo newsletter and took day to go through the top stories. I have invited Andre Bulpini who's the founder CEO of which is one of those SEO tools that already provide us the functionalities to get prepared for the next stage of AI search. Thanks. Thanks for the invite, Allayia. Super excited. Thank you for coming. And before starting going through the latest news, I want to thank Similar Web who's our today's sponsor. Let's go through them. The first one, as we can expect, is this massive piece that was published last week by Mike King going through how AI mode works and how SEOs can prepare for the future of search to optimize for it. What Mike did was to go through all of the patterns pretty much and not only analyze the patterns in a easier to understand way for SEOs describing the implication to our work but also analyze the different areas in the way that we do things at the moment and how they will change giving ideas for potential tools and data that we need that we still don't have at the moment. Andrea, I would love to hear your thoughts on Mike's piece that you would like to highlight from this. Anything that you thought that was particularly important? I was so very thankful that he took not only the time and effort but also provided actionable advice as outcomes because this is something that unfortunately we had already coincidentally gotten from search engines in their official AI search guidance. Google and Microsoft also published this similar pieces providing best practices for AI search and I'm here showing the one of Microsoft because this one that I saw that was a little bit more specific more actionable but the goal ones was so very high level not necessarily saying something different than what we already do currently in SEO right so I really like that Mike went to the nitty-gritty and described the real implications Mike did the monumental work here because uh it kind of combine a lot of the aspects that technically drive the new AI mode experience. Now to make it short and kind of highlight the focus, one aspect is the user context and this is still to be practically understood but user context means that uh everything that we do across the different Google properties and tools will translate into a user embedding. So it would in the end uh be represented by a matrix of numbers. And so if I have visited your website and Mike's website during my journey to understand AI mode, this will uh become part of the experience. So every time that we trigger a request, the AI mode system will take into account the embedding representing the customer journeys and this is something that also Cindicram has been explaining in the past uh in in different ways. So user context first uh area where we need to start focusing on and practically that means that we have to understand the target personas of our brand and so uh one thing that for example we do uh when we build our knowledge graph with the SEO ontology we define user personas because if we don't understand very clearly who we are addressing it would become very difficult to get into these new systems. So a clear understanding of the user context and customer journeys it's key in order to understand more about how to build relevance. The second aspect that might highlights is the importance of semantic similarity. We're not ranking pages but we are ranking chunks by semantic similarity. That means that you can have a long content but there is only a short snippet of text that uh would be described in machine learning as a text chunk that uh would be ranked against the other chunks across the other websites and so we are into the world of what Google used to call passage rankings and that means that we need to start optimizing for these passages. The third aspect is on the query find out technique because Mike might found interesting pattern there that provides an highlight on the different types of expansion of the query. So from one query in a final process we will obtain multiple subqueries. Now there are different ways in which a system like a large language model can generate these subqueries and here in this patent by Google we can see different angles that can be explored in order to generate these subqueries. So these are for me the three key parts of Mike's piece. That's a wonderful summary. Thank you very much. And many will say oh but we are sort of already doing that in one way or another right but it's the level of execution as you mentioned let's get back on the practicalities of our job like in the past for example we have expanded content by analyzing the people also ask feature on Google now the people also ask feature is something that uh now it's been you know crawled and uh we've been using it for for now several years and It starts from the user query. So we have a user query and then we have people also ask that tend to expand and so you we might think that this is a similar fan out technique. Well the reality from some of the analysis that I've done is that uh the output is quite different because you know people also ask Google will try to to keep the user within a same context. So it will expand vertically whether in a AI mode fan out approach you will see that Google will tend to to get a broader set of topics covered by the new queries. This is also why only 25% of the results are coming from the you know top rankings and so there's a crucial difference in the data that we used to have and the data that we need to build with AI mode. This is amazing and thank you very much for bringing that up about the differences in traditional search results, top results versus answers in AI overviews in this case or AI modes which is why I want to go to the next piece already that explains that a little bit. The one from Tomci regarding SEO still matters for AI search engines. going through an analysis that he did of 25,000 real users across AI search platforms and he discovered that if your website ranks number one in Google traditional search results blue links you have 25% chances of being cited as a source in the AI overviews and he go through the explanations and the differences of this in AI overviews versus JGPT perplexity and at some point in the explanation here he mentioned how on one hand this is why ranking well in traditional search results and rankings in Google remains crucial in AI search inclusion on one hand at the end of the I think that we can consider this because of the grounding systems that LLMs and AI mode in this case has like the base but then why we see sources that don't rank highly mentioned or cited here and he mentions two main reasons on one hand what you just mentioned personalization and caching and the querify now technique this is a big one issue multiple related searches across topics and data sources to develop a response in order to make sure that they provide a comprehensive answer taking into account many different angles to provide the synthesis to the user but yes it's interesting on one hand understand that oh it's not necessarily that is something completely different what we have been doing provides an an amazing ground to continue building and understanding and refining evolving what we have done but yes there are some major differences indeed And that takes us to the other top piece of the week which it doesn't surprise me that the topic is as popular because there are hundreds of conversations about this going on right now in LinkedIn. We can see oh should we still call ourselves SEOs or should we call what we are going to start doing now with AI search something different? Should we be should we be AIO's? But then Ran also made a really good piece that really connected because at the end of the day it's also still SEO what we will do here because SEO it can be also the acronym for search everywhere optimization too because realistically the optimization that we will be doing is yet for another platforms many other SEOs have also evolved to optimize for YouTube Tik Tok and so on and LLM here is far more discussed and I believe that is seen a little bit of the evol evolution of search engines and that is why unlike those who optimize for YouTube there is this conversation now right so I would love to hear your thoughts about this Andrea are your team SEO or something else I always been an advocate of the idea that um SEOs are you know an important part of an organization when it comes to AI so I always had this vision that the SEOs are on kind of on the pioneering side of things that have to do with AI. So I'm totally okay with the with the term SEO. I'm totally okay with, you know, Mike's idea of relevancy engineering. I think that there's a shift in the data that we have. There is a shift in the consumer behavior. I am not totally on the side of still talking about search because there is a lot of course content recommendation at place. We've seen it for many years with Google discover and and we'll see more with AI. So I'm not sure we should think in terms of search. I believe that the skill set that we have will remain valid as we keep evolving from one area to another 100%. I believe that potentially the only reason to do it will be to package it differently in order to make it easy to support let's say across organizations to get more or better buy in by certain decision makers who are very impressed with all of what is happening with AI right and for AI potentially they might want to even go bigger than for SEO and unfortunately because of the bad reputation that SEO had for a long long time and still today with certain people somehow even if it has matured a lot and you know that is very different than 10 years ago. Yes, I can think that just because of that it will be a potential decision to make. Although let's say it's a little bit more of a marketing of how you package it rather than a real need because it's something entirely different. To finish our today's edition I want to go through actually your explanation of the query fan now technique. I believe that as well Mike highlighted also in his piece explaining how beyond personalization this was one of the other core areas or aspects of how AI answers are different or unique in the way they work versus traditional search results and explain it really really well. I also explain it but more in layman month man's terms let's say so very very quickly to start tackling this new topic that will play only a bigger role in our SEO or AI optimization day-to-day is uh the query fan out technique which is a technique that AI mode uses to breaking down your questions into subtopics and issuing a multitude of queries simultaneously on your behalf. So these are done in parallel and this enables search to dive deeper into the web than traditional search on Google. So rather than taking a specific query and trying to match it with content that they have in their index, they will generate a variety of queries trying to identify and discover from different contexts and areas information that will satisfy our queries in a very very comprehensive way. And I went through here a few examples and also mentioned here a little bit of what implication let's say we could expect in our day-to-day the the need of deeper intent understanding on one hand real comprehensive topic authority and anticipation of follow-up questions. Andrea took this to the next level also going through patterns analysis and provided also not only examples but even a tool. This tool is completely free. you can use it. Andrea just mentioned before the call how he had even refined the tool in order for you to to use it and to get a even more comprehensive result that resemble more of what we could receive using AI mode with related queries, implicit queries, comparative queries, reformulation of queries, entity expanded queries. So Andrea, can you please explain? Today I went live with the second release because of this opportunity that I had to discuss it with you. So the core idea is as you ask uh how do we do something practical right? So I didn't want to start from the user intent because uh the user intent of course would uh require an understanding of the user context. I want to start from the existing content that we have online. And so my goal was okay let's look at a product page. Let's look at a listing page. Let's look at an article and then let's try to understand the AI mode readiness of that piece of content. That's my idea. And so I wanted to start from the ontological core. So what is the core entity that the piece is is describing? Is this a product? Is this a comparison between products? Is a you know anformational piece? And here in this second release I'm using Gemini. uh Gemini as a as a very powerful functionality for extracting context from URL. So it doesn't allow you to actually crawl the page but it would use the page as a context for generating whatever request you have. Originally I was scrolling the page but then I look at what Dan Petrovich was doing and then I say okay we use Gemini to read the page and use it in context which is very similar to what I expect Google AI mode is doing. Okay, so Google is not crawling the page because he has the page in the index and the model now has this uh functionality that will enable it to get the information from the page as part of the context. So I started uh to ask the the model what is the main entity for the piece and then after doing that I build the program. So why I want to build the program is because I don't want to remain within the context of prompting. Why? Because prompting is very brittle. is fragile. But when we build the programs with these frameworks, then we can improve the prompting ability autonomously. So if I feed now more data, for example, the data that comes from similar web about, you know, the type of questions that people are actually asking on a given page, then I can improve autonomously the prompting. So I don't do the prompting. I just do a first prompt and stick it into a program and then the program will learn based on the data that I did. Now when we generate the subaries now based on one of the pattern that Michael King highlighted the system reason on the different type of templates that you know the different type of facets that can be used for generating subqueries. So then I generate a list and this list again is you know it's it's quite different from the traditional people also ask type of subqueries. Then I get back on the page. I chunk the page. So I create the text chunk from the article or the PVP that you had and I start comparing the the subqueries with the chunks that you have on the page to let you see if you're covering each of the subqueries already with existing content. Now an interesting aspect is that we might have some content elsewhere on the website that might cover that subqueries. Well, we we don't need to create these, you know, ultra long pages now because we have to cover the fan out queries because we might have that content already available. And so here the next step, of course, using things like WordLift where you have all the embeddings of your website, we can immediately find the right chunks that can respond to the fun out starting from an entity like a product or an article. And so that's that's pretty much how things are working now. It's a collab. It's open source so that everyone can play with it. Uh I'm going to create of course a web application so that it's not too technical and it's not too complicated. I'm using embeddings from from OpenAI. I will probably use embeddings from Gemini to keep things as as consistent as possible. Here you see the results. So at the end I'm evaluating an article and I can set a threshold, right? So I can say how similar should be each chunk to the generated queries and I can decide to generate five 10 20 sub queries with this algorithm and then I can see you know what is covered how well it's covered because a competitor might cover that way better right so I can start thinking in terms of okay is these sub queries well covered by my piece or is there someone else out there that is covering because we have access to to Gemini and the way in which Gemini uses the web as context. We can actually build such a tool that will allow us to see what is the best chunk for these subquery and of course do we have to cover every subqueries? Not at all. That is a great point that you just made because I believe that that is one of the other let's say worries for a lot of people and we can see this directly in one of the other top pieces from the latest edition of SEO FOMO which is a this fantastic guide of Chima about should we stop creating informationational content. A lot of people are actually wondering this in the other way around. But now I actually need to create even more content to create like more comprehensive topic clusters that actually answer this questions from many other different angles. But how and why? Because a lot of people are actually scared right now and thinking about actually stopping to do it because of AI overviews and the fact that AI overviews will be shown much more forformational queries and provide directly an answer that will highly satisfy many scenarios the user needs and won't make necessarily or translate to a direct visit like as before. And of course, Chima makes an fantastic point in her piece. At the end of the day is about creating something that is worthy and actually helpful for your real customer and users, not creating content just for the sake of it just because they have a high search volume or because it's one of the related queries that we see through the fan out process right now. Is this content actually solving my problem for my audience or is it merely adding to the noise of the SERs or in this case is actually one of those that AI mode at some point will assess but if it doesn't make sense for me to add or to try to contribute or we don't have actual insights or something that connects with our products or services well we might not necessarily go for it. What are your thoughts about this and how do you think that is the best way to address this? I think there is a lot less space for bad SEO, right? With AI, there are better capabilities of sifting through the good data. Now, what is the good data is really what I call the ontological core like how strong is your topical authority in addressing your customer needs and how strong is your understanding of your customer personas would make a difference. So you don't need to you know increase the coverage you need to increase the semantic relevance for the subqueries that really uh are part of the customer journey for your users your clients and that's becoming very strategic and there is no space with such a system to to create just you know fluffy content that would not make value in in relationship to a brand. That's that's the way I see it. Amazing. No I think that that is a fantastic insight. It's better to have an example. If you have the capacity, let's say, to create 100 pieces of content, it's better to create 100 pieces of content to cover your core topic, your real expert topic in a very comprehensive way rather than going for 10 different topics related that where you don't necessarily actually offer something for unique based on your product or services. Right? I mean the idea is that um when when we look at a brand we we have to look at uh what are the core entities of this brand what are the core entities representing the brand's clients and then we can take it from there. It is true that we will possibly generate more content than before but this content is also going to be dynamic. We have to start thinking in terms of we don't need to create a a web page every time that we need to publish content because as AI progress we will have you know chatbots that will address some of these needs and still behind the chatbots there needs to be an SEO that connects the user needs with the core value of the brand and so I think that's that's the direction where where we're going. Thank you very much for your insights, your advice, the tool. Go and check it out. It's completely free and stay tuned also for the additional web version of the tool that Andrea will publish too. And check out his tool because it's one of those tools that a lot of what he just mentioned is automatically generated is part of the functionality. Right, Andrea? Yeah, I mean that's basically what what word does is really help companies, you know, understand their their core entities and and build an infrastructure that creates content at scale without the risk of uh going off topic, the risk of hallucinating, whether it's programmatic or or editorial. That's what it does for you. Amazing. Thank you very much for that. And to wrap up our today's episode, I want to thanks again Similar Web, today's sponsor, which coincidentally I believe that is one of the only players out there that I know at least that offers prompts information about any page of any site out there. They don't only give you the traffic information or details of the different LLMs to your site and your competitors but can be of a lot of help to better understand how people users already searching out there for your products or services through LLMs. Thank you very much Andrea for joining your insights have been super helpful to deconstruct what's going on going through the main criteria what people should pay attention understand better and to focus our efforts on actually what matters right there's so much noise going on so I really really appreciate you joining thanks to you and if you want to keep up with the latest stories without waiting for the next edition of the SEO for newsletter go and take a look at the SEO for news which is pretty much an SEO news aggregator so you can keep up what all what is going on on real time. It actually has also an AI search category in case you are particularly interested on this topic. Remember to subscribe to the channel and like the episode if you have liked it. Thank you very much and until the next edition. Bye-bye.