Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BxVfGc7Uq3w
File: tm-blast/tm-blast-video-1
--------------------------------------------------

Greg here again from TM Blast. I'm tracking my business for several different AI platforms like Google AI, Perplexity, ChatGPT, Copilot and I've been seeing that my brand has been mentioned more often now, which is the goal of a ISO. So back on April 7th, it was 6% of the time now. Today we're at 31%. I'm going to show you my top prompt and how I'm being featured more often. So click on view Full report It's this it says hourly Co consulting for local service businesses. Back on April 8th, I had a 25% of the time that my brand was being mentioned across again, Google Perplexity ChatGPT and Copilot. Today it is. Consistently at the 50 mark, which is actually really important because I've been able to double my coverage now and I'm consistently at that 50 mark. That is key. That is a KPI that I'm tracking. Let's go into the responses over here. So I want to show you how this looks. So I'm not featured today in perplexity. I was featured yesterday perplexity. So again, this is a really key. When it comes to AI, O, you're not always going to be featured every single day, but the goal is that overview that I showed going from 25% to 50% consistently. That's the goal. O, let's go into Google AI. You search for hourly SEO consulting for local service business. My business is featured over here under Sources along with other companies as well, and I'm featured. Right above the hourly present details. Let's go now to Microsoft Copilot. So slightly different the way that they source. Their results, but then my business over here source and I'm right over here as they linked mentioned hourly consulting one off SEO help team bless. All right, let's go back. So again, you guys can pause this part of this video, but you can see how if my burn has been mentioned from today versus yesterday 2 days ago, I can actually keep going further back to get the full list of how often I was featured go back to the very beginning you can see now. I'm I'm increasing how many yeses there are. So you might be saying, OK, this is cool. Greg is increasing his brand mentions what is he done? O again, I'm in outerwear. I'm going to go to the Geo audit tool, go to content checker over here is the main page. I've been demoing off now in a few different videos. This is really key. You have to crawl your pages. So there's a combination of using. I use SEM Rush attracts some daily keyword rankings. I saw my hourly was featured in Google AI, so I add that as a prompt with an utterly. I also use a Microsoft Bing Webmaster tools. I found out that my hourly page again was being cited. That's why it shows it. So I had a few different sources telling me that this was the key page to really focus on and I really want to increase my brand visibility. 3 things that really matter, static versus dynamic readiness analysis and structured data analysis. So let me explain this real quick. The top static that's key if you have a heavy JavaScript website or a ton of iframes or other. Honestly, bloat when it comes to a page, it's going to be very difficult for Google and for Copilot and Shaggy between perplexity to really understand your content. You want to be as close to 100% as possible. Static is just HTML readiness analysis. So this is, you know, key blocks. So if you're if your strategy right now is saying I want to write. 1000 words for EO, that's not going to work. It's not going to rank. It's too, there's too much jargon, there's too many words. People don't even read it anyway. You really need to break U your content into a clear and understanding section. So what I like to do on my side is I break it up with different color schemes from like a flow pattern access thing, but a mobile first. User and the structured data analysis. That's a combination of schema markup, but also your traditional elements like title tag, H1 tag, all that kind of stuff. Let me go to the page real quick so you can just see it. This is kind of what I mean and by the way, I'm not a developer, so if I can do this, you guys can do this too. So I have a white background over here. Then I have a key take away section which is blue, and then I have this. Blue darker blue section Then I have a you know a video over here and you can get an idea of how I've broken U my content. So there is a lot of words on here, but when you break it U with different backgrounds and different blocks, it makes it so much easier to understand and I believe, according to utterly dot AI, they really like that because they can see it's clear. It could be much better, obviously, but I've been making visual changes on my side. I've been using the tool to run content checks. I've been looking at some of the analysis that they give me and I've been making changes. And this is the same type of thought process I'm pushing for all my clients. So again, if you are, let's say, an ecommerce business or a B to B or B to C. And you have a national audience as well, or even international. Um, this is pretty much where you want to be kind of focusing on it a little bit, which is, you know, maybe we have a pretty good SEO strategy. How do we increase our brand coverage across strategy, PPT, Copilot, Perplexity and other LMS as well to increase our brand perception to hopefully lead to more awareness. More direct traffic, more referral traffic from these platforms and ultimately more leads. But anyway, I'll leave you guys with this again. So back into the overview, increasing brand coverage, which is great. I expect this to keep growing and I'm going to keep making
more videos about this. But anyway, let me know if you guys have any questions. I hope this maybe spark some ideas what you guys do for your business. Let me know in the comments section and as always, have a good rest of your day.