Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fx1vn8oWXTA
File: collin-seo/collin-video-2
--------------------------------------------------

If you're trying to rank for AI overviews without knowing what keywords actually trigger them, you are guessing. I mean, you might spend weeks creating content for keywords that Google just decided not to show it. So, in this video, I'm going to show you how to find the keywords that actually trigger AI overviews in Google. And, this is a game-changer, how to untap hidden secret keywords that your competitors are ranking for in AI and you're not. So, let's get to it. Now, you might be wondering, why do I need to find these keywords that trigger an AI overview? Like, if I rank in Google, I'll get clicks and clients, right? Well, it's very simple. This AI overview that appears when you search certain keywords takes most of the clicks from the classic SEO results. So, for example, this competitor right here that is ranking right there is being mentioned as well as there will get so many more clicks than even the first position in Google. It's crazy. This has been a game-changer, this AI overview. So, to even rank in here, you first need to understand what keywords actually trigger it. So, the best place to start with is with this SEO tool. It's called Ahrefs. If you want the link, stay until the end of the video and I'll give it to you. And it's very simple. Go to the section that's called Site Explorer, and you can just start with your own website, put it right there, and it's going to tell you a lot of information about your site, but you care about these organic competitors report. If you scroll down, what it's basically showing you is the actual competitors of yours in Google. You think you might know your competitors because it's your business and you know who's who, but these are the competitors that are actually sharing results with you and keywords in Google, the true SEO competitors. So, from this point, it's very simple. All you have to do is go and select several. I like to start with five, but you can definitely do more, and then open them in Content Gap. And like any SEO tool, it might look a bit scary, like, "Oh, let me just not check." No, don't worry. All you have to do is just scroll down, and here's the gold. These are the actual keywords that your competitors are ranking for and you're not. So, you can see my client right there is not ranking for these keywords in any position, but you have this competitor, for example, that's ranking position number six. Now, how many players on a soccer team? Or this competitor on flag football cleats and so on. Now, a lot of people would go and export these keywords and target them, but that's a mistake because you don't know if these keywords, when they search in Google, actually trigger an AI overview. So, to do that, you need to do one more simple step, which is scroll up here, add a filter. Filters and SEOs are literally best friends. It's so cool. So, add a filter, we go to SERP feature, and we go to AI overview. So, now we're going to see only the keywords, show results. So, it goes from 2,000 to 2,100. So, a lot of those trigger AI overviews. That's crazy. So, we've seen now the 2,000 over 2,000 keywords that, again, our competitors rank for and we don't that actually trigger an AI overview. And these are the keywords you need to go and target if you want to actually rank in these AI overviews. If you want to put your own competitors and not the ones the SEO tool gives you, all you have to go is go to all tools and go to competitive analysis. And then now you can put your URL here, or you can even put a competitor's URL. You can keep redoing this with many URLs. So, you just put your website right there, and then you put several of your competitors, the ones that you want, right there. If you want to add more, you can just add more, and then show keyword opportunities at the filter, and there they are. Now, there's another cool way to find keywords that's going to help you find even more of them, but most importantly, there's a free tool, you can see it right here, that lets you do exactly what I explained for free because the tool I mentioned at the beginning is not free. So, stay with me so you can do it without spending any money at all. So, instead of getting those keywords that trigger AI overviews from your competitors, you can just get them from Keyword Explorer. It's in the same SEO tool. All you have to do is put any keyword related to your business, for example, right there. And if you go to matching terms, you're going to see all the keywords in the world that people search that contain the keywords that you've added. So, you see that's a lot of keywords there, over 10,000, but you want the ones that trigger AI overviews. So, so you go to SERP features, AI overviews, apply, show results, and that's it. We have these keywords right here that you know that if you target, we are going to rank, if you do it correctly, in the AI overview. Keep one thing in mind, though. You can see the number went drastically down from a lot of thousands to 44. It's not that only 44 keywords out of 10,000 actually trigger AI overviews. It's basically a limitation from the tool. So, a lot of keywords, the tool tries its best to actually go and visit the keyword and identify the Google results, and as you can see this keyword, it has, and you can see the results that essentially rank for that keyword. So, when the tool does this, it's able to identify an AI overview shows for that keyword because the tool has visited, has searched a keyword and checked it. But, it doesn't do it for a lot of keywords. Can you see here NA and NA basically here? So, for this keyword, the tool has not really visited the keyword and look at the SERPs, so it's not able to identify if it has an AI overview or not. So, let's say maybe this keyword does trigger an AI overview, but because the tool hasn't really visited it, when you essentially add a rule to show only with the AI overview, you will not see it when it actually does trigger an AI overview. So, always keep in mind that limitation. But, let me tell you that this step right here is the main step in SEO to actually find keywords related to your business. And there's so many tricks and tips I cannot show you in this video, but don't worry cuz I have a full tutorial, 25 minutes, on exactly what to do here. So, stay with me and I'll give it to you. Now, let's say I want to actually know if these keywords right here have AI overviews, and I don't have time to just select them, search them in Google, and say, "Okay, it doesn't contain it." It's too time-consuming. Here's where this magic Chrome extension comes. It's called AI Overview Impact Analysis. Pretty long name. Don't worry, I'll give you the link at the end. So, all you have to do is just go and copy all these keywords, then go back to the tool, and just paste them right there. Keep in mind that it doesn't add the comma automatically for you, and the tool only works with the comma, so, you know, AI can just do this for you in seconds, and there it is. And you're going to see the magic here. You paste it right there and just press search, and I'm not touching the screen. You can see it's actually searching the keyword for you automatically, and it's going to look if it has an AI overview, and it normally takes just a few seconds, and you can actually add a lot of keywords at once, but you can see I'm not doing anything, and it's going to search it, and then once it's done, it's going to let you know. So, you can go, take a coffee, espresso, have lunch, whatever. When it's done, basically, download the report. You can just download it, and it's going to give you this cool report. You can see I did it for a lot of keywords for different clients. I just dropped them all in, and that's it. And then, if we look at the football ones here, you'll see that if it contains a number here, it means that actually there are AI overviews. If there is a zero, it means that there are no AI overviews. So, now you know that these keywords have it, and this one doesn't. But, the cool thing is domain counts is even more information. It actually tells you, out of the keywords that you're giving it, how many domains rank for AI overviews in this case, and for how many times. So, you can see that for the keywords that I searched, my client right here ranks for several of them. So, for three of the keywords, it ranks five times because sometimes for a keyword you can actually rank two times in AI overview. Now, if you want to actually know what to do to rank in the AI overview, I have a full video showing you that. So, if you want that video, the tool, and every video I mentioned, they are in the description of the video and in the pinned comments. Or, if you want to chill and that I do this for you, in the description you have my four SEO plans, so I can do SEO for you. And now, it's your turn. Let's go.