Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SK6hJeQW_bY
File: collin-seo/collin-video-1
--------------------------------------------------

I realized that most people think SEO topical maps are made by creating just cool-looking graphs. And don't get me wrong, the graphs look super cool, but that's not how you do it. These SEO topical maps will only make you rank in Google when AI either made by two things, real keywords and SERP similarities. And I know it sounds advanced, but don't worry, it's so simple. In this video, I'm going to show you how to find real data to actually feed your SEO topical map, how to cluster all these topics by reverse engineering how Google works, and how to audit your current SEO topical map to see how Google is seeing it from their perspective. So, let's get to it. These are the graphs I was talking about. A lot of people when they think of topical maps for SEO, they think of putting a main topic right here and just thinking of like, "Oh, what could be within this topic?" So, it could be a subtopic and then another subtopic and then all of these could be pages. But to come up with these topics and order them in a hierarchy, you need to find topics, aka keywords, that people actually search. So, for example, with my client, before I even started creating a topical map for my content, I went and exported almost just almost 200,000 keywords. This is quite a lot, but don't worry cuz I'm going to show you the two quick ways to get a lot of keywords. You're going to get too many, literally. The first one is going to a tool like Ahrefs or SEMrush and put a keyword related to your business. And keep in mind that you can put one keyword here, do what I'm going to explain next, but then try with another and onwards like that. It's basically never ending. But what you do is, for example, my client football academy and so on, and I will go to matching terms to see all the keywords in the world that contain these words. And you can see there's a lot of interest here, 10,000 keywords and some of them have over 1,000 traffic. So, in this case, what you can do is if they seem relevant to you, you can go and just export them right here. And the great thing is there's there's a free version here, so let's go here. Uh the link, if you want the link of the free version, just stay until the end of the video and I'll give it to you. But same thing, you put the keyword there. Just put United Kingdom cuz it would be soccer in America. Verify Cloudflare is always there. And there they are, a lot of keywords right here as well as questions. Of course, this is a free tool, so it's not going to give you the 10,000. It's just going to give you around 50 or something like that. But if you do this with a lot of keywords, you'll literally end up with a lot of them, trust me. And the second way is to put a competitor of yours. So, let's say here, in this case is my client, but imagine it's a competitor, and you go to organic keywords. And this is crazy because you can actually see all of the keywords that your competitors are ranking for. It's not illegal, this is like real public data. And there they are, they are ranking for these keywords with this page, a lot of information here, but really to just care to export again. And if you want to do it for free, same thing here. Uh here there's the homepage, check traffic. And there it is, you can see their traffic, a lot of information, but we care about these keywords right here. Not a lot, but at least it's a few. If you do it with a lot of competitors, you'll end up with a lot. Now, you might have realized that what I'm explaining to you is how to do a keyword research, and this is a world on its own. It's way more advanced than this. So, I have a full 25-minute tutorial teaching you the step-by-step to reach and find all these keywords, and you'll find more than 200,000, trust me. So, stay until the end and then I'll give you this tutorial. So, once you've done that, and it it's a big it's a big task, you will have a lot of keywords. I'm not sure if 200,000, maybe more actually, maybe less. But the good thing is that you didn't come up with the topics. You're not thinking of your business like, "Hmm, football and I think field, right? And then football position and then ball." Like, yes, I guess these are topics, but we don't know if these are actual keywords that people search or if they're even relevant. Now we found the topics, they're all in here. We know they're relevant because to get them, we've added keywords related to our business and competitors of ours that we want to catch. So, if they're targeting these keywords and ranking for them, we want as well. And we know if they are searched and how many searches. We have all the information we need to start to create our topical map. So, now we need the second part of the equation, which is creating the topical map. And when we think of a topical map, we think of groups that are ordered together. So, we need to make groups. So, again, to make groups, the first way would be to use your brain, but trust me, don't use that part. Uh there's tools that do it better than your brain. So, for example, let's say we have our 200,000 keywords and it's like, "Okay, soccer players and I guess famous soccer players is is is a topic within inside that topic, right? I guess." So, it would be soccer, soccer players, and soccer player positions. Maybe, I guess. But Google doesn't work that way. We need to remember that we live and work inside Google's world. They make the rules, they are the tyrant. So, what we actually need to do is reverse engineer Google. And this is the second thing I was shocked that you can do. The logic is very simple. I'm going to use this tool because it visualizes it pretty well. So, let's say inside our thousands of keywords here, we identify one or two keywords that were football training for girls and football classes for girls. They are topically related, but like, do we put them together or do we put one under another one? Like, how does it actually work? So, what we will do is we will actually search both keywords in Google. And this is what the tool has done, it has searched both keywords and it's presenting us the links that are actually ranking. So, the rule we're going to use to either put these two keywords together into a topical map cluster or to separate them is if there's overlapping results in Google. So, for example, here from both keywords, there's four common links that are ranking. So, 50% of the results are ranking for both keywords. And there isn't a more clear case than this one. We see this website here, this link is is ranking for this keyword, and the same link, you see the same one, exactly the same page, is ranking for the other one. And the same with position two, funny enough. And then we see another one here and another one here. So, we can see what Google is doing. Google has found this page essentially and has decided that it can rank for this keyword and this keyword. It is telling us that if you create one page only targeting both keywords, you can rank for both. Which means that we, in our topical map cluster, whatever we call it, long name, we want to put them together. So, in this case, there is a high similarity, 50% is a pretty high similarity score. So, we will put these together. If there was a low similarity score like zero, many times keywords are very different to each other, so there's no overlapping results or if there's one or two, we will separate them. Theoretically, 200,000 keywords, right? So, how are we even going to begin to search these keywords and just extract the results? And it's just too many, right? So, this is where this tool comes to play, which is the one that I use with my clients to do it in bulk. Keep in mind that this is a premium tool. If you want the link, stay until the end of the video, but in the next chapter, I'll show you free ways to do this, basically. But what you'll do is you you literally copy all these 200,000 keywords and you can give them all at once to the tool. And what the tool is going to do is search all these keywords at once and it's going to see if there's overlapping results between all of them. I don't know how they do it, but it's crazy. And it's going to come up with these topical clusters for you. For example, this one, "Who is the best soccer player in the world?" That's a topic he has found, and you can see that all these keywords are related to each other because they share results. So, they are inside the same topical group. And you can see from 200,000 keywords, there's 56,000 topical groups. That's a lot. And if you click in topical clusters, you can actually see all these groups. Look at this, there's so many right here. And if you were to click in one of them, you'll see even more subtopics inside. So, now that you have your clusters, you want to do exactly what I do with my clients, which is I like this tool, it looks all cool and stuff here, but it's not really manageable. So, what I like is to export all the data and then import it in a Google Sheets. And we have the same thing here. For example, this is a cluster in my topical map, and if we scroll down here, we can see all the sub keywords that are inside this. Look at this, this is a huge topical map and it's a page we could create. And the keyword that you're seeing here is just simply the keyword that has the most search volume within the whole group of keywords. So, now I can create a page about best football boots for wide feet, weird page, but yeah. And then we can target all these keywords inside. And we know we should target them together because Google is telling us they have overlapping results. The great thing of having the SEO topical map this way in the sheets, and I'm like a sheets lover, is instead of, let's say, with where is it? With this topical map that is more like designer-based, is that you can filter stuff. Here you will have all these groups and then, you know, it will be very essentially very hard to find things. You know, you know, with 56,000 of them, it can get really big and you have to scroll up and down. Where's the topic that I want? But here, you can actually filter. So, I could filter like I want stuff that have, for example, girls, like I said. So, there's my page. But if I take off the filter completely now, I can also filter by difficulty. So, you can see there's a lot of scary-looking data here. I I I I scrolled past it fast cuz I don't want to scare you. But all this data is essentially telling us if it's possible for our client, our website, to rank. So, we have obviously the volume, but all of this is essentially the difficulty. So, what I could do is, for example, we can go here and we can say, "Tell me what groups have low SEO power websites ranking in Google for those topics, let's say." So, all minimum DR, it means that a website has low SEO power from zero to 100. So, all of these, if a website has zero SEO power managed to rank, we can rank as well. And you can see these are very interesting topics. Now, you might be like, "What was that? What what do you mean SEO power?" Don't worry cuz I have a full SEO tutorial explaining this, this step right here, and also how to get it done cuz it's quite complicated. So, I'll give it to you at the end of the video. Now, let's do it for free. That's the big one. The way I showed you is sort of the pro way with a real project if you want it fast and get results fast. But if you're starting out, you might want to do it for free. So, don't worry, I'm going to show you. This weird-looking sheets that's just dark is actually the same thing that this tool does. Let me show you. So, what you can do is we're going to do this, we're going to search the keyword in Google here and then we're going to go to extensions and we're going to get this extension right here. Where is it? This one. We're going to turn it on. I have all my extensions off always cuz it just breaks my Google. And then now that it's on, we're going to go and just going to press and it seems like nothing happened, but don't worry cuz you're going to go back to that sheets. And then we're just going to press control V right here. And there's a lot of information here, but all you care about is the URLs. We're copying the top 10 URLs at once without having to select them manually. So, just delete all of that, copy the URLs, and put them in this first column. So, there they are. And now we go to the second keyword here. We search it in Google. So, you can see we're doing it manually. And then same logic here, open, click, we go here, control V, we have it. And where are the URLs? Oh, here are the URLs. They were hiding from us. Control C. Again, delete all this stuff. We don't need it now. And we're going to paste them in this column. And you can see that if they become red, it means they're duplicate duplicate duplicated. So, it means that these URL it's here as well. Can you see? Here. And then this one is also here. And this one is right there, and so on. So, you can see that there's a lot of overlapping. There's more than definitely uh three or four. There's a lot of them. So, it means that these two keywords should be put together inside the same topical cluster. Don't worry, if you want this file, I'll give it to you for free. Just stay until the end. Now, the con of doing it this way, although it's free, is that you are doing just two keywords. And this works well if you're looking at the two topics, and you just want to cross-check them to make sure. But if you want to do it in bulk, you need to be able to do it faster than this. So, the great thing is that this tool lets you do them in bulk. But instead of you know, 200,000 keywords, unfortunately there's a limit of 200 keywords. But that's actually good enough for us. So, again, what you can do is go back to your big research here, and just select 200 keywords. There it is, let's say. And then go back to the tool, paste all of them. And all you have to put is your target country, your language, and make sure you change minimum overlap to three. Because if you put two, it's still going to put keywords together if there's just two common URLs here. But in my opinion, two is too little, and it could put keywords together that actually you shouldn't. You should actually put separated. Now, if you want to know what to do next with this tool, as well as finding unlimited free keywords forever, just check this video, which I'll give it to you at the end of the video, and you can get it done. And now the final version to do it for free, where you can give it 200,000 keywords. You can give them a lot of them. It seems like I'm a cheap guy here finding all the free way possible, but I'm just doing you a favor. So, the same logic here, just paste all the keywords. And again, not a 200 limit uh there's no 200 limit here. You can put as many as you want. And then here I want you to put five, okay? So, it doesn't do groups that are smaller than five. And then process the keywords, and I only added a few, so it's really fast. But if you add 200,000, it might take a few minutes. And you can see it's giving you groups here that are pretty interesting. Best soccer player, and the keywords here seem related to each other, right? Now, this looks like an amazing world, and you might be telling me like, why did you tell me about that paid tool at the beginning? There's a huge con with this tool that I remember when I found out I was like, no. I thought it was free. The way this tool makes these clusters is not by searching this keyword in Google, and this keyword in Google, and if they share results, put them together. If they don't share results, we separate them. Doesn't do it that way. It's basically just using some algorithms with language, and looking at tokenizing words, and semantics, and so on to put them together. And you know, it does a pretty good job because these are related to each other, but trust me, do not base your topical cluster map and the pages you're going to create for your website with this tool only. Cuz you might be creating pages for topics, and actually maybe these topics should actually be separated into two pages. Or the opposite, maybe this topic and this topic should be together, and you've created two pages. And it's a huge SEO mistake. So, the way I would use it is to just get an understanding of all your keywords here and the different topics, instead of just having them all in a column, and that's it, okay? Now, there's one more cool thing you can do with your SEO topical map that we haven't gone through. We've gone through how to create it from scratch, but what if you already have a website that's really big, and you want to cross-check your topical maps, and most importantly, and this is the game-changer, what Google thinks your topical maps are. Cuz remember, we are in Google's world. So, this tool lets you do it for free. It's crazy that it's free. Hopefully it's free forever, but like yeah, this is amazing. So, what you have to do basically is just add all the titles and descriptions of all your SEO pages all in here. I'm not going to explain how to get them, but you can get them with this free tool here. You crawl your website, and you can see all the SEO pages are there, and all the titles are right there, as well as all the descriptions here if you click in meta description. And then you need to click in SEO topic clusters. Exactly what we want, and why you're here. And just keep the similarity like this. And for for this case, I'm going to use a sample data that they have here. And just generate the graph. And this is the crazy thing. You can see down here that it's using some models, and in 1 second you're going to see there's going to start to look at information for one website called Wikidata. There it is, Wikidata, Wikidata, and so on. Now, Wikidata is a very important website that has just all the topics that exist in the world. And Google, and this is the crucial part, uses this website in their algorithms to understand just the world basically. And what it's trying to understand is if things, pieces of text, are entities, are actually things that exist and people care about. And once it's done, after a minute or so, you're going to get this that looks nice. Looks what we want. So, what it's telling us is what Google is understanding that our page is about in the topical cluster world. So, again, we've given it information about our website, so all the titles and descriptions for our pages. It has cross-checked it against its own Google database of semantic topics, and so on, and it's making groups. So, for example, for this website, they've mentioned the word Google and the entity, the topic as per Wikidata, Google, a lot of times. The more times, the bigger it is, and obviously the higher the number here. So, the way you're going to execute this is very simple. First, you want to make sure that you see topics, entities related to your business, and to basically what you want to rank for. So, if you don't see many, it means you're not mentioning these topics in the pages you create, or you maybe haven't even created pages about those topics. So, you need to go and start to do that. And secondly, you need to know the topics that really related to your business, and you really want to rank for, and you need to make sure that they don't only appear, but they are mentioned many times. So, they are these big boxes. So, for that football client I explained before, it would be stuff related to soccer, player, football field. So, I want to see a lot of them, and I want to see them big. Football academy, and so on. I want to make sure they're big. And the cool thing is if you open these topics here, you can actually see from what pages, or SEO titles and description, it's picking it up from. So, you can see it from here. So, if you want this free tool, and this free tool, and as well as all the tutorials like the SEO advanced keyword research, the difficulty, and every other tool I mentioned, they are linked in the description of the video and in the pin comment. And if this is a little bit too much, and you want me to take care of your SEO, go to description of the video, and you can see my four SEO plans. And now it's your turn. Let's go.