Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=woJaCDgrgPU
File: vasco-seo-tips/vasco-video-4
--------------------------------------------------

What's up everyone? So, I want to go over my Claude SEO automation that these guys are actually implementing that's bringing in almost 20,000 in monthly organic visitors straight to their site. The growth has been insane. They're a local business based off of France. So, this whole Claude SEO automation is going to be based and tailored to local businesses. So, if you're a local business, keep watching. If not, well, I do think still this will still be valuable. So, I'll just I'll just jump in. So, again, they're pulling in almost 20,000 people to their site in their local language to their local business every single month. Okay? Now, cuz I do mention money in this video's title, I think, uh we have to take a look at this. And I I always talk about this. I always preface the video by saying this like the value of this traffic right now is 1.7K a month. So, how is it calculated? Well, if you were and I'll go over the business in a bit, don't worry. If you were to be a competitor of these guys, so if you were to sell if you were to be a local business in the same town, I think this is Paris, by the way, in France, um and if you were to want to pay Google Ads and bid on all these keywords to get this much traffic every month, you'd pay almost $2,000 a month in a in Google Ads. And they're getting all this traffic uh for free. So, it's pretty cool. Now, let's go over the business. I'll have to hide a bunch of stuff, but hopefully you guys can see what this is is they're an ophthalmologist, basically a doctor for the eyes. And they're just a classic local business. This is all in French, but they're they just basically are a clinic. They have all these services for um eye strains or eye issues. Again, based off of France, and I do think this is in Paris, if I'm not mistaken. Okay, it's in Lille um in the north of of France. By the way, they're a real business. They have a bunch of these social pages as they should. So, I just want to give you some some stuff substance, excuse me, that the business exists. They're a real life business. And yeah, that's basically it. They They exist and they're they're in business and they're pulling in a lot of traffic. Now, what are they doing? So, I always start these videos by saying, "Okay, sure. This is great. They're pulling in a lot of traffic, but how and where?" Well, how first, their domain ranks for all these keywords. But we have to take a look at the pages. So, if you go here to top pages, we can see that these are the pages on their site that pull in the most traffic. For example, this page right here pulls in almost 3,000 people a month. This one 2,000, 1.8,000. So, a lot of people every month going to their site. Again, this is all in French. And if I just do command F and type in post, right, you'll see that all these are post pages. Now, what does this mean? Well, let me just open them open up a bunch of them right here. All these are post pages. So, most of the traffic doesn't even come to the home page, right? The most visited page is right here. And I'll just open up a bunch of them right here. And all of these are hopefully I I can hide enough things that you guys don't figure out who the business is, but all these are are content pages, article pages. It's literally it's all all the same thing. All of these are content pages going over their users' pain points. Again, with images, internal links to other pages on their site, external links, bullets, tables, quotes. Again, just full-on content-based pages. Just content-based pages. Now, this is very important. On one hand, because all these pages rank on Google and pull in a bunch of traffic, as you see right here, but also because they now get their their mentions, excuse me, the pages and the content on the pages are getting cited and mentioned by all these LLMs. You know, it's just the beginning, but it it's growing, right? As as the site's traffic grows, there's a there's a correlation between how well you you perform on the classic Google search, how much traffic you get from Google and Bing, and how many mentions you get across these LLMs. So, their brand has been mentioned in Google's AI reviews, ChatGPT, and now on Compil and Perplexity. By the way, if you want to like know which LLMs mention your brand, you can just go to arval.com, new monitor, add your brand right here. Uh let me just show you an example for our brand that we can track if we show up in ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, Perplexity, Grok, and also the sentiment. So, in case we do show up, are they saying good or bad things about it? Since, for example, for the prompt um how to automatically generate and post articles for my blog, I can click this and see, "Okay, where?" Only Perplexity mentions our brand, these don't. And I can click here and see, "Okay, where?" And we are mentioned here in a table. Now, for example, for the prompt uh is Arval the best AI SEO software? Well, of course, we are mentioned across all these LLMs because again, the brand name is in the prompt, but Grok says bad things about it. It says there's a negative sentiment. Well, all these other ones are positive, right? I can click here and see, "Okay, Grok says no. Arval is not the best one." Then I can look at their sources and see, "Okay, why are they saying we're not the best one? Can we edit those sources? Can we Can we create new sources to change the LLM sentiment?" Maybe we can. And so, I can add as many prompts as I want and measure this as I'd like for my brands, even for my competitors' brands if I want. I can add literally any URL right here and monitor my competitors. So, there you go. That's how you track this right here. Now, going back to the pages, again, all this is is simple article pages. Now, the reason why they rank, like oftentimes people think blogging is dead. It is not. The reason why these pages rank is because they satisfy the search intent of these keywords. And I know this is a bit theoretical at first, but I do want to go you go over the Claude automation, but we have to understand the why. Like, why does this happen? Well, why are they getting all this traffic? Again, it's because the pages, the content on their site is optimized for these keywords, right? Thus, when people search for these keywords on Google, right, their content surfaces because Google thinks, "Okay, this is the best piece of content I can provide to the end user that satisfies their search intent the best." Right? Be it any informational piece of content, a how-to, like doesn't matter. Anything related with their business. That's That's why this works. Now, how could you implement the same thing onto your business, onto your local business, regardless if you're in the same niche or not? It doesn't matter if you're in a different niche. Well, go over here Claude, um and you can use the the following prompt. And I will do this live, by the way. So, I own Oh. I own a local business in country named name with a URL URL. I want you to browse my site and understand exactly how we're ranked. So, basically, I'll just You can You guys can comment prompt. I'll just give give you the link to this prompt. I'll I'll I'll create a link on my site with this prompt. So, what we do here is just copy this right here. Copy URL. Actually, country France, name, URL. There you go. And then there's a whole like set of prompts. Just hit enter. Now, I'm using Claude's extended thinking cuz I pay for it, but I do think if you use the free version, it'll also be good enough. But again, I would say right now it's like browsing to their site because the whole idea of this of this big prompt is to have Claude browse the site, understand what the business is, what they do, who they serve. So, what's their ideal customer profile? Like, what's their ideal target customer, right? Um their competition, analyze the whole niche and understand exactly what the business is, what they sell, etc. Right? So, that's basically what this prompt is doing. And you need, of course, to produce a proper SEO strategy. In other words, to have to be able to produce content that ranks for the keywords you want to rank for, commercial intent keywords, by the way, that gets this traffic, well, the AI needs to understand what your business is beforehand. You need to give it a lot of context, by the way. And then, the the the second part of the prompt is basically saying, "Hey, by the way, I want you to make a list of commercial commercial intent keywords." So, I don't want to rank for what is I don't know. Let's say, for example, I have a plastic surgery clinic. I do nose jobs, right? >> [snorts] >> I don't want I if I have a local local business for that, I don't necessarily want to rank for what's a rhinoplasty, right? Cuz people searching for what's a rhinoplasty, well, rhinoplasty is like a surgery to the nose, right? People looking for what's a rhinoplasty, well, they might not necessarily be my target client, right? I want to rank for how much is a rhinoplasty cost or before and after of a rhinoplasty or is it safe to make a rhinoplasty if you're like 50 years old. So, these are high high buying intent keywords or or um commercial intent keywords where the the intent behind the the person who's searching, right, is commercial. Okay? Not necessarily informational. Um so So, yeah, let's just wait for this There you go. Okay, perfect. Now, I then asked it to make a table, and this is what the prompt will output. Basically, in this this case it is in French Excuse me, this In this case it is in French because it is French, right? But I asked it to give me a list of commercial intent keywords, high buying intent keywords, right? And then a title, right, of a potential article that would best satisfy the intent of this search query. Okay? Again, this is in French because the business is in France. Hopefully, maybe I can translate this to English so you guys can see a bit of an example. Let's see. Translate this into English. Boom. Let's see. Just so you guys can see like a a small preview of this. Okay, there you go. So, for example, which cataract implant to choose? So, someone looking for this, like which which basically eye implant to choose, well, they know what the issue is. They know that they need an implant, and they're looking for the best one to choose based on their specific pain point. So, again, these are all commercial high buying intent keywords. For example, and by the way, location-based, Lille. This is the name of the city, Lille. Okay, Lille. Okay? Uh let me see another one, for example. This is a perfect example, like cornea uh guttata ophthalmologist Lille. I mean, all these are high buying intent keywords or at least there's some commercial intent behind um the search of of these keywords. Hopefully, that's making sense so far. Okay? Now, going back here, all that you do next is ask it to scroll down right here. Hope- hopefully, I'm not uh revealing any information that I shouldn't be. Now, we just say, "Okay. Now, based Now, based on this, I want you to go ahead and in by the way, cuz on the original prompt, I give it like all that I want you to like now write the content. The content needs to be point to the point, concise, no fluff, internal links, external links. So, I give it all the whole um the whole gist on how to write the proper article with the all the all the elements I want. So, let's down here, just say, "Okay. Now, based on this, I want you to go ahead and generate the first article for the first item in the table. Give me it in markdown format, please." This is if you want to like just put it in WordPress or any CMS. It's easier if it's it's markdown. So, let's just wait for this load and I'll be right back. By the way, you you can beef up the prompt by giving it a list of competitors, which was will be what we did what we do after for for the backlinks because content, right? It's just a small part of just I mean, it's one of the three pillars of the SEO game. We have three pillars in the SEO game, right? We have on-page SEO, we have off-page SEO. That's two F's. We have technical SEO. On-page is basically everything happens on the site like the keywords you target, the content you write, how you write it, how it's how it how you put the content into your site. It's everything that happens on your site. Off-page is everything happens off your site. Basically, backlinks, okay? And then technical SEO is the boring part like site speed, schema markup, uh meta titles, meta tags, canonicals, image alt tags, internal links, all all the boring stuff, okay? Which is still very important by the way because if you have an amazing on-page, an amazing off-page, but then your site speed is super slow, well, even if you rank first, people will click your site, it will take ages to load, people are just going to click off and yeah, just basically click the second guy. So, they're equally as important these three. And what I usually recommend you guys you do is just get this tool because then you can go here, type in any any competitor domain, and click here and literally look at all the backlinks they have. So, you can just copy the backlinks all the guys have. And by the way, I'll leave a link in the description for a a free course as well. Actually, yeah, I'm just I'll just open it up here my YouTube channel so I can show you guys real quick. Go to my channel, type in backlinks, and there's a bunch of tutorials for free on exactly how to build backlinks. There you go. So, there's a bunch of them. Type Watch this one and watch these two. Uh and if you want like you can also pay me, click here. You can just pay me to build these backlinks for you. The backlinks that I teach you how to build on these videos that I just showed you are the exact same backlinks I build on here. Uh they are 40 plus guaranteed, 1,000 plus organic search traffic. I mean, then if you want to buy them, you go ahead. If you just want to do it yourself, just watch the videos on here. It's basically the same thing. Um but yeah, go back here again. We we have to talk about backlinks because again, as I said before, there are three pillars you need to to obey by or or to follow, right? Not just the one, not just the content. Now, content is very important and it's you can rank without backlinks in less competitive niches, but links are still very important. So, you can go on Claude and type in this prompt, "Hey, I want to I own a local business in country whatever name and whatever URL." Yeah, excuse me, with "I own a local business in country whatever name name with URL URL. I want you to browse the site, understand the business, etc. Then I want you to look for five to 10 competitors in the areas we serve that offer the same or similar services, and I need their site URLs." So, you can just do this real quick here. Boom. Boom. And what you can do after is take all Oh, Jesus. Okay, so I've just hit my limits on the pro. Yeah, I've been using this way too much. Um yeah. Um actually, let me just use Keep working. Let's use a free version. Never mind. Well, point being, I wasn't expecting to hit the limits, but basically, it's going to spit out a list of URLs. Now, you can't get Claude to build backlinks for you automatically, but again, you can get it to look for and browse the web for the the guys with the most the people who are targeting the the same keywords you are, okay? Then take these ones URLs right here, put place them into Ahrefs right there, click on the backlinks and look for the backlinks they have, then basically open them all up, sort by DR, and actually, I'll show you right here real quick here. If this was one of the competitors, just go here, sort by DR, look at the most powerful backlinks, open these all up, see if they look real, see if they make sense, have some critical thinking, and then just reach out to these guys' site and say, "Hey, by the way, I saw you have a link on your site to these guys. How much do you charge to make a link to my site as well?" And by the way, I explained all this stuff in these videos, so just watch those. Um yeah, if you guys want to me to go over this in more depth, let me know, but basically, all all you need to know to build backlinks is basically already on these ones right here, so I don't want to make this video super long because it's it's the same process. And just use a prompt like this on Claude to get the competitors. By the way, if you're a more technical person, you can even go to Ahrefs cuz now they offer their API in in their $130 a month plan. You can connect connect to their API. So, basically, if you can if you connect Claude with Ahrefs Ahrefs API, all the work that you're doing right here sort of manually and looking for through the links, you can have it basically you can have basically go in here and do it automatically, okay? And then the outreach part, you still have to sort of do it manually unless you set up a whole a whole workflow, which I I can do for you guys. If you guys want want me to do work on that, let me know. Cuz in in essence, anything you do manually, you can just basically automate with AI and agents. Um but yeah, I feel like it's very important that I teach show you and teach you how to do it manually because then if you actually want to do it if you want to automate it, well, first you have to know how to do it manually, I feel like. So, yeah, there you go. And let's go back here and uh we have the first full-on article. Um yeah, that's basically And basically, that's it. Now, again, I can just copy this real quick here. Let me just quickly show you here in a article write article right from scratch. This is just easier. Now, this is the whole thing, okay? Um now, there isn't images for some reason it messed up. Basically, I can just delete this right here. Boom. Let's just clean this up a bit. Boom. I can go here and add an image. Uh let's just do with them when with AI. Let me just see. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Now, it's going to generate an image based off of my prompt. Again, I can just I basically just use this editor to just beef up the content in case Claude has some mistakes or doesn't have the images or the links or the embeds. Uh I just use the editor to to beef it up a little bit. Uh boom, there you go. Again, makes perfect sense. This is AI-based. Uh this is doesn't really matter right now. Okay, there you go. So, if I like what I see, I can just go here, publish article, and publish it straight to my integration. Um with Claude, you can't really automate the whole thing because I mean, yeah, Claude doesn't publish straight to your site, but with this, you can just go here and publish straight to your site. This integrates with um all these CMSs right here. And one thing you can do as well is you can set up an automatic blog. So, you can just go here, new campaign, I doctor, enable auto blog full automation mode, continue, and then you can just select the your integration site, right? And then you can set an interval on how many articles you want it to publish every single day. So, instead of using Claude to generate the content, you can just use this um to just fully automate the whole thing. But more on this later on. My point is to show you how to use Claude. And the whole thing like this is not hard. Like anyone who just watched all the way through understood how this works. It's again just uh reverse engineering what your competitors might be doing. Cuz if I was to be if I was to be one of these if I were if I were to be like a a clinical clinic, excuse me, in France that had the same service, well well, what I do is okay, I'd see okay, these guys are massively succeeding bunch of traffic like for a bunch of keywords. The growth is astonishing, right? What are they doing, right? Just reverse engineer what's working, right? Just go here, look at the top pages, see okay, sure, they're producing a bunch of content targeting XYZ keywords. I just look at all the content. It's simple article pages, pretty straightforward. I too can do this. Not only that, I can fully automate the whole thing and make it even faster with AI. Is be it by using Claude, just make sure that you mention that you want to like go for high buying intent keywords, or by using it to like Arvo to just have an automatic blog running on autopilot. Cuz this as well like if you just go here, create new feed keyword feed, add your URL, your main keywords, list of your competitors, target country, target language, this will spit out basically uh let me just see here. Based off your competition, your site, all this cool cool stuff, a list of keywords, right? Which by the way, updates every single week, okay? So, every week it updates with fresh new keywords. Then you just connect this with an automatic blog. New campaign, boom boom boom boom, full automation mode, full automation mode, continue, select the feed you just created right right there, right? The keyword feed you just created. And then again, this is basically going to be running on autopilot like full on the back uh for you like just forever. Um there's stuff like for example, the uh knowledge base where you can basically upload onto our AI context like uh your URL, uh text documents, video documents, TXTs, there are a bunch of brand assets so that the AI the AI, excuse me, is able to write brand tailored content or brand content, excuse me, in your brand's tone of voice, brand's mannerisms, basically non-AI slop, which sometimes uh Claude can uh can write, which kind of sucks. Um but yeah, so you can fully just do this one by one with Claude and just copy what it gives you and just push it to your site's CMS, or fully automate the whole thing with Arvo with the automatic blog thing that just runs in the back on autopilot uh forever, right? And then in again, in case you want to do use both and still want to do manual manual stuff, you just copy this, go to Arvo, articles, new article as you saw before, uh write article, paste it in here, and just go in and edit some stuff, right? For example, you can just select parts of it and say, "I think this is too short. Make it uh add links or add keywords or make it longer, make it shorter, make a list, make a table, or even add custom prompt." Or like just like with Claude where you can just basically go here and just give it a whole prompt to change the whole thing. Right here, you can as well. This is just a bit more SEO-tailored because you go here to AI system, just give it any any custom prompt, and anything you put here will change the whole thing according to what your prompt is. Add the images, etc. and then just code there and publish it straight to your site. Again, you can use a mix mix of things. I own Arvo. I'm fully biased. This is my tool. If you buy it, I make money. That being said, as biased as I am, this just the fact that this allows you to automatically publish to your site, or manually, by the way, um I think it's just great a cool add-on. You can use these two tools interchangeably. Um if you don't like Arvo's output for generation, you can just use Claude, and then just leverage Arvo for the automation of all the publishing um on the back end if you want. And by the way, like going over this again, uh there's there's a bunch of uh of customization you can do right here real real quick um cuz we try to give you as much as many degrees of freedom as possible. So, right here, you can change like an insane amount of settings, right? Language, over 150 different languages, target country cuz this matters, of course, right? I can write in English, but I can be targeting the UK or Australia and the US, and it's a whole different thing on how the way we write, right? Tone of voice, point of view, formality, advanced options, knowledge base, this is where again you connect this to web or to existing knowledge base knowledge base so that the content is non non-AI slop, formatting, structuring, you can change all the structure, article size, call to action at the end, internal linking structure because again, you want the articles to have links to between each other, right? External linking, images, AI images, stock photos, custom images, even custom prompts if you do choose AI images, video embeds, I mean a bunch of whole stuff right there. Or you can even like create your own custom template if you want. This is a bit more advanced, but again, we just give you all the freedom you need. I want to show you show you quickly an output of this um of an article that I generated like sometime ago. Let's see for example, I don't know, LinkedIn growth, whatever. Well, this is all done with AI. I I I I chose a bit of weird images right there, but all done with AI with the internal links, external links, in-article videos that are relevant to what the article is about. All this done for you automatically. And again, if you there's something you don't like, you just go here and say, "Okay, um revision real quick. Let me just go in and and add links, add keywords, change up the images with any custom prompts." So again, it just gives you a bunch of freedom in case you guys want to change change things. But that's the whole gist of this, right? It's simple, it's not easy, but it is simple. Take the prompt again, just comment the word prompt and I'll send the prompt over to you. It's not nothing complex. Change the URL of your of your business or your client's business, the country, the location, and then just have it produce a similar table like this, okay? This is going to be for high-buying keywords, right? And then ask it to generate the content, right? And regardless if you use Arvo to edit or not or you got or if you just copy this and post it straight to your site, this can work, okay? It's working for them. There's no reason why it shouldn't work for you as well. And also, by the way, this is something else. Usually, for non-English speaking niches, this is 10 times easier because there's way less competition, right? So, if these guys were to be targeting these same keywords, but for the American market, most likely they wouldn't be pulling not even half of this, right? But because they're targeting the French market, which is again, less competitive, right? But there's still a lot of a lot of search volume. Well, they can they can do this, right? So, think about ways in which maybe you can either uh target non-English speaking people even if you live in the many in a mainly English-speaking country, like in the example, in the US, there's a lot of Spanish-speaking people, so you can even target, even though your business is in the US, you can produce content in Spanish to target those people and get those people into your business. Or if you live around Europe, Asia, whatever, you can just see and and instead of just going for English-based keywords, go for the French, Greek, um Thai, I don't know, any non-English speaking keywords because they're way easier to rank and way easier to pull in a bunch of traffic. That's it. Pretty straight forward. Again, comment the word prompt, I'll send you the prompt. If you have any questions, also drop them in the comments. And if you want more AI or Claude AI SEO automations, check this out and yeah, thank you so much for watching. Check this out and I'll catch you on the next one. Bye-bye.