Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JLBp3tB2P1E
File: vasco-seo-tips/vasco-video-1
--------------------------------------------------

All right, welcome. So, this is going to be a full stepbystep tutorial on how you can automate your SEO using AI. I want to start with case studies. All these guys right here, this one, this one, all these guys are doing the exact same thing that I'm about to show you. It's going to be a very long and boring video, but by the end, hopefully, you're able to set up this SOP, this automation, fully automated with AI to deliver similar results. not just getting an increase in organic search traffic from Google, but also having your brand be mentioned and cited by all these LLMs because that's the whole goal, right? We want increased traffic right here. And nowadays in the AI space, we want to increase our brand mentions all across LM. And again, there's many, many, many case studies. I'll leave links for all these case studies uh down below in the description because I have videos for all these going over exactly step by step what they did. But now again, I want to show you exactly how you can fully automate your SEO with AI. Now, full disclosure, I'm going to be using my own tool. It's because it's the only tool in the market that does it. That being said, you don't need to use it. My whole goal is to show you how I can do it with my tool, showing you the full automated sequence. And in the end, I'll give you some tips and tricks on how you can do it for free. That being [snorts] said, I feel like when I do show you the capabilities that that this does, and again, the results that this tool provides, you'll be happy to pay, I think, the $60 a month that it costs to fully set up the whole thing. like fully just set it up once, click a button, and it just runs honestly forever. Okay. Now, there's a couple things we need first, and it's going to be a theoretical part, but this is very important because I mean, if we want to set up an automation get that gets us these results, like we need to understand what in fact we're doing, okay? What in fact is SEO and how we can get all this traffic from Google and Bing and also from these all these LMS, right? How can we get 5K mentions a month from Chat GBT, right? So, here's what we need to set up and again, I'll show you step by step how to do so in a bit. So first things first, we need to find a way to fully automate the keyword research and we'll do this. It's going to be the very first step, right? Because right for example, right here, these guys rank for all these keywords. That's why they get all this traffic, right? They also get all these brand mentions in LLM because they're being mentioned for certain prompts people are typing in, for example, into chat GPT, right? So the very first step is to find a way to automate the keyword or prompt research. We're going to be doing that in just a second. Okay? Then we have to find a way because we're using AI for all the the whole automation and also the the content generation. We need to find a way to have AI produce non-generic slop AI content, right? Because again going over to this example, so or or this one, whichever one you want to choose, right? These right here, like why is traffic coming in? Well, it's because certain pages on these guys' site rank for these keywords does get this traffic. This traffic is going to maybe their homepage, maybe to like a service page if they're a local business, maybe to a a product page for their like an e-commerce store, maybe if they're a software business, the traffic is going to a feature page, a blog page. Doesn't matter. We'll cover that in a bit. But again, we need to be producing content. Now, we're going to of course use AI to for the whole thing, including the production of the content, right? The generation, but we don't want the content to be AI slope. It needs to be actually valuable content. So, we need to find a way to feed into the AI we're going to be using to generate the whole content our brand's assets, our brand name, YouTube channels if you have one, documents, txts, PDF files, anything you have about your brand. We need to find a way to feed that into the AI so that the is able to produce brand pillar content, right? With your own brand of voice, brands mannerisms. Okay. Then after that, of course, we have to find out a way to have it auto autonomously producing content and then a way to have it autonomously published to your site CMS. So be it WordPress, Shopify, Ghost, Weeks, Web Flow, whichever CMS you use, even if it's like a custom one, we have to find a way to after the keyword research is done. Let me just start drawing some things right here. After we find a way to fully automate the keyword research, right? Right. We have to find a way to Okay, let's then generate the content. But then we have to automatically have it published to our site. So we have to do the whole thing from A to Z from keyword generation, keyword generation of course to generation of the content then to publishing it to straight to our site. Okay, that's the very first couple things. Then we have to set up little AI agents that go to our site and fix stuff like fix uh for example your schema markup. This is more of technical SEO side of things which I'll go over in a bit. But we have to find and deploy find a way to automatically deploy these little agents that jump onto your site and fix like the meta titles, meta descriptions, they fix the boring stuff like image all text, all that stuff that's very important to do that most people don't even do, right? we have to include it here as well because the full SOP right the center send operation procedure or the full automation needs to include stuff like this because we're automating SEO then of course we have to find a proper way to track because I mean the goal the whole goal of of doing this and getting this traffic we have to track what's working and what's not working right so we have to find a way to track uh both the LLM mentions right both and the search ranking as well so we have to find a way to track this right here because if you want to like track this using this tool it's going to be very expensive I think a refs charge charges excuse me, $1,000 a month, which is insanely expensive. So, we're not going to do that, of course. We're going to be fully automating it, fully automating it by not even a a tenth of the price. So, it's going to be pretty cool. And then a bonus one, which we'll cover in a bit, not to worry. Now, let's just jump in into the tool that we're going to be using. And full disclosure, it's going to be my tool. Again, every single thing I'll do right now on this you can do on your own. Again, the only thing is that I mean, if you want to fully automate the whole thing, you're going to have to pay some dollars. Uh, and this just fully automates the whole thing for And again, all these guys that you see right here, all of these guys right here with this these insane numbers, right? And there's many many more uh used this tool and set up the automation exactly how I'm about to show you. Okay, so first things first, go to uh blog automation and you're going to connect your CMS, right? Boom. Right here. Connect whichever CMS you want. Shopify, doesn't matter. If you have any questions, click here, watch tutorial, and you'll learn exactly how to do it. That's the very first thing. Connect CMS because we have to connect the software that's going to be doing the AIC automation with your site, right? Let me just release my face right here. Okay, pretty for that like 10 seconds. Now, next thing we're going to do is we're going to be going right here and create a new workspace. Let's just do, for example, uh my automatic SEO agent, right? Boom. Great. This is just so you can get organized, right? And if you have multiple brands or multiple sites you want to do this for, it's good to start with a clean slate. Okay, just do that. I'll just use the default one because it already has some presets there. Now, next thing you're going to go to feeds, create new feed, and set up a keyword feed. Right? Now, what this will do, again, remember that's the very first step. We to to to able to be able to get the traffic, we have to be producing traffic targeting certain keywords. So, that's you have to find a way to automate the keyword research. So, you go here, right? And what you're going to do is you're going to feed the AI a bunch of info, right? You're going to feed it your website's URL, your main keywords, your competitors, the target country, and the target language, right? This is very important you make this uh because like the AI's output depends on your input. If your input is trash or just not true, the output is going to be trash as well. And if you want to properly set up a full AI SEO automation, it needs to be properly set up. So, let me just use for example um this business right here called uh Epic Gardening. I mean, I I have no affiliation with them. I do like what they're doing. They're basically they're an e-commerce store. And by the way, this automation works for e-commerce, local businesses, software businesses, agencies, anything. It's the same principles. Basically, what these guys do, let's just give you some context. They sell gardening supplies. Okay, pretty straightforward. And so, let's just take their uh main site right here and use them as an example. Copy this and let's just do this uh my gardening gardening site. Okay. Website URL and then keyword seed keywords. These are basically the main keywords. So, if I am these guys, right? What would I want ideally? What would be like the two main keywords I want my site to rank first for? Well, most likely let's say gardening supplies just because I think their main product is in fact like garden beds. Let's just do garden beds for example. Garden beds. Again, you tailor this to your industry, to your niche. Now, competitors is very important because again our AI, this AI is going to take into account all of this stuff. It's going to analyze your site. It's going to analyze your main keywords. It's going to analyze every single thing it can about your competitors. So, it's very important you do this properly. Okay. So what we do is you take this main two keywords, right? Just slap them on Google gardening supplies and you see, okay, what we have here as competitors. Let me just see here. Okay, I have my two competitors. I'm just going to place them here right now. Again, I needed to do a bit more research because I mean I'm not in this niche. This is not my business, but that's why. Target country, target language, and then hit create feed. Now, what this is going to do, again, we're setting up the automation for it to pick up new keywords. Now, this is a live thing. This is a live entity. keyword feeds refresh at least once per week. What does this mean? Now, this is going to take a while to p to um populate right here, but what this will do is every single week, right, it's going to come up with a list of new keywords based off of your website, your competitors, your seed keywords, your target country, and target language. Okay? And it's going to be a living entity again, always pulling in fresh new keywords so we can produce content out of those keywords. Okay? So, again, none of this is stagnant. This is again a living entity. We're building a a fully automated process for our SEO. And SEO is of course a marketing strategy. So it needs to be a a thing that lives on and keeps on working for you every single day, every single week, every single month for the long run. Okay. So let me just wait for this to populate in a bit because right now it's analyzing all the info I gave to the feed to give me a list of keywords. Again, if I want to change the thing, I can just go here to to the configuration and change things up. Now, let's just wait for this load. I'll be back once it has. There you go. Just took a couple of seconds and we're live. Now again, this G is giving us a list of 81 keywords. We can skim through them, right? And then we can be producing content based out of those. For example, um drip irrigation for garden beds. Now, let's just let's keep with the same niche, right? Why is this a valuable keyword? Well, if we want to drive more traffic to our brand, so we want to drive traffic, we want people to buy our products, our garden beds, right? So, who would want to buy that? Well, someone searching for drip irrigation for garden beds. Well, most likely one, we can assume that they know what they're looking for, like because they're literally typing it out. And two, right, they're somewhat in in the purchase funnel, right? Pretty down here, right? Because they're they're looking for a specific system in this case. I mean, this is how much I know about garden beds, but I assume that on a garden bed is like a system that drips water one by one. So So you don't have like to go out there manually and and wa water it out. Actually, this is similar to the automation to the automation we're building. Excuse me. This is an automation for a garden bed and we're building an automation for SEO. That's a bad joke. But yeah, again, the point being is that this is a valuable keyword. Someone's searching. We we want this customer. We I want every single person searching for this to come into my store and buy my products because I sell this. Okay. So again, we took our keyword feed. It's now live. And again, every single week, it's going to be populating with new keywords. we have always fresh new keywords to produce content based out of. Okay? Cuz again, what this will do over here is going to do the whole thing, right? It's going to come up with the keywords not randomly, right? Based off all the info we gave you and again, it's a living entity. It's going to keep on generating new keywords that make sense. Then based off of all these key based off of all these keywords, excuse me, it's going to generate the content and then publish that content to our site. Again, we'll cover that in a bit. Now, before that, we need to go here to customization, set up a knowledge base. Now what this is right is will allow us to feed the AI with info about our brand. Let's just do for example um my gardening brand. Okay, create knowledge base. Now what a knowledge base is again let me just open it up right here is we allows us to add assets text documents PDF documents and sites. Now we'll you'll be able to add more stuff right here. We used to have more stuff but as of now this is basically every single thing you need. Um, so again, what you're doing right here is you're feeding our AI brain with a bunch of your brains assets, text documents, uh, PDFs, website info, etc. All these are brands assets. So now when the AI is writing content based off of the keywords that your feed is currently putting out, right, it's able to write brand pillar content with your own brand's mannerisms and brand of voice. So no AI slop. That's part of the reason why these guys see this much success, right, with AI content because it's not it's actually valuable content. It's not AI slop. The reason why these guys are seeing this growth this fast is because they're actually doing the automation the right way, right? With the knowledge base enabled. Now, can you succeed without knowledge base? Yeah, sure. Depends on the niche, but in the more competitive niches, I do recommend you set up a knowledge base because it's way better. Okay, now let's go back here to our trusty um myro board. We now have a way to pick up keywords again, not just some random keywords. Sure, you can go into ChachiPT and pull in those keywords, but then you don't have an automated system that's always pulling in those keywords based on your brand, based on what your competitors are doing, right? Bas based on all that valuable stuff. This again, this is a living entity. So, if you were to do this with Chat GPT manually, you'd have to do it every single week. Again, we're trying to set up a full automation, fully automated with AI. So, again, this is the only way. So again we have the the way excuse me to retrieve uh keywords on autopilot in a way that makes sense valuable keywords with that are data backed with your competitors your niche what you do your main keyword etc. So very valuable right there. Um now we have also a way to feed our brand's assets. This is just a one time thing. Just do it once and it's fed. Now let's find a way to automatically create the content. Now this is very it's going to be very specific because depending on your brand you're going to be want to be going to be producing excuse me different types of content. Let's assume that again going with this this same brand. Let's say right one of the ways these guys um drive traffic to their site. I can even go here and paste this in so you guys can see the amount of traffic that these guys are getting. One of the ways these guys uh pull in traffic for their business and they get around 221,000 uh monthly search traffic, right? Is through their blog right here. Uh let me just copy the so they have the shop right and then they have the actual um because hopefully you guys can see the URL right here. This is the shop one and then the main domain it's like just epicguarding.com and right here right all all but one of the things they do is they produce long form content tailored to who their customers are. For example, again these guys sell gardening supplies. So content about the 21 longest flowering bulbs to plant this season. Boom. Article with who wrote the article, why they're qualified. There's even a a profile for who who she is, why she's qualified to be writing this piece of content. the human links to LinkedIn and the the pieces she wrote again all this properly done valuable information now one could say and I'll tackle this later on like like um with AI nowadays most people aren't reading this stuff what's happening is that these are getting uh basically um AI overviewed by Google so let me just base this in on Google right what happens is there's this right here that there's AI overviews so you could say that yeah sure why would I be producing content even though this guy ranks first like let's assume let's assume that these guys uh wouldn't even rank right first right here let's just assume that this was the first thing showing up the reviews and then the site's on there like one would think that why would I be producing content if Google already has it here well it's because even if nobody goes here and clicks your site right doesn't matter why because the info on here is based off of all these sites and many many more so even if I have my answer right here right it could say something like hey listen here's the 21 longest ones according to um this brand. And by the way, here's a link to that product where you can actually buy all these 21s 20 21 uh uh flower bulbs, whatever. You get the point. So even if even if this gets zero traffic, doesn't matter, right? Because it can get indirect traffic by robots. This is going to get like a bit not philosophical but a bit boring, but I feel like it's important that I do this. Um, so comparing chat GPT or Google's AI mode, whichever LLM you use versus uh the classic uh Google search. Let me just make this bigger. So on Google search, you just go here. Jesus, that's a bit too big. You just go here and type in something, right? I don't know. Let's skip. Let's do the same example. Best bulbs for flower, whatever. So there's result one, right? Result two. There's result three. Maybe there's even AI reviews, whatever. Result four, until result 100. Okay. Now, usually before as humans, we just click this, maybe read the article, right? Click this, maybe this is like a Reddit thread. We just skim through the Reddit comments and then maybe this is like a YouTube video. Click the YouTube video, just watch the YouTube video, right? Now, with LLMs, what's happening? It's like more of a funnel type interaction where you give it a prompt, you prompt it with something, it gives you an answer, right? And then you're going to refine it. You prompt it again back and forth, back and forth until the answer you have, prompt, answer, prompt, answer, the answer you have satisfies the search intent of your original prompt. Now, why is this valuable? Well, it's because on Google, right on the right hand side right here, you just search for something. Yeah, you click the first, click the second, click the third, maybe you click the fourth one, but for sure you're not going to the hundth one. For sure, no human does it. However, AI can. And based off of your prompt, the AI wants to give you the best answer possible. So, if it has to go to the page, it will. No, most times it's going to like do the ex exact same thing like disconstruct your prompt and paste it into search sort of and it's going to read the article for you. It's going to skim through the red comments for you. It's going to take in the YouTube transcript for you and then based off of all this info is going to compile the answer in info, excuse me, into a little text box. So before you used to have to do this all manually. You'd have to read the article, read, watch the video, read the comments. AI does it at 10,000 times faster and compiles all the info you've gathered you you would have gathered right here on your brain. It compiles all in right here into a little like text thing. I mean, we've all used Chet. That's how it works. Again, that being said, if it feels like to satisfy the search intent of your prompt, it has to go to the to the 100th page right here, it will and we'll pull that info right here and put it right here. So even if this gets zero human traffic, it can get indirect human traffic because if it if the AI feels like it has to pull up pull it up, excuse me, and then cite it or mention, it will. So that's why we go back here, right? This is not a bad thing, right? This is not a bad thing at all because there's citations here. There's there there's there's links to where it found the info from. Okay, it's sort of Google inside of Google if that makes sense. Now, this is the AI reviews, right? We we can we can enable the AI mode, which is basically Google's version of chat GPT, but it works the same way. So, what I'm what I'm talking about here, even if this gets no human traffic, it doesn't matter. It is still valuable because if if by the end of this very well-written article, they tell you, "Hey, listen guys, here's where you can buy all these uh 21 different um flowers. There's a link here to our Shopify store. Uh and uh just go buy it because we have this 21 flower seed pack for $9.99 which you can buy. So again, if this article is relevant for whichever keywords that it is, let's assume there's all these ones doesn't doesn't matter, right? [snorts] It's still going to be relevant for whichever prompts people search for that have the same search intent as his keywords. So it's still going to be showing up and when it does, it will be cited where it got the info from and products will be recommended. Hopefully that made sense. Okay, hopefully you're still with me. Now, going back to what I was saying before about the generation of the content, let's again go with the same thing. And let's assume just want to do this. And by the way, uh hopefully I can give you guys here in the top pages um like type of flowers. All these pages get a ton of traffic. And all these pages are I can open this up right here. All these are are simple like article pages, right? With info with in article images, in article videos, uh links to their Shopify store, links to other articles. It's it's it is pretty straightforward. It is a pretty simple written format. There's a sidebar right here to get their emails most likely. I mean, pretty straightforward. it is they're pulling in info and generating content for keywords they think their potential customers are searching for and this is a way in which people get introduced to their brand and again even if no human goes here well this will still be cited by LMS and what could happen the trend is not not ever going to be like fully is the traffic right here from search might go down a bit and we're seeing this like clicks are going down right but it's it's you win it back right here because think about this like if people are searching for I don't know. Let's go with a more simple example. Uh buy um buy iPhone 16 or or buy Mercedes-Benz, right? Just because the clicks on your site that sells Mercedes-Benz are going down. Doesn't mean less people want to buy it, right? People still want to buy stuff, people still want to consume, people want to buy cars, buy watches, buy whatever, right? The way in which they find your brand is different. So instead of them going to your site right now, well, they go to an AI citation that mentions your site. say, "Hey, listen. If you're looking for a Mercedes-Benz, we recommend this dealership here in Dallas, Texas. Boom. Click here. Boom. Boom. Buy the car." Hopefully, this making sense so far. So, there's no issue in the clicks going on because the the the the consumer mindset is still there. People still want to buy stuff. Okay. So, again, going back here, I know I did some some quite a lot of tangents, but it's very important, right? Because it's important that I explain this stuff right here. Um, let's let's produce the content. Okay. So, what you can do with Arvo right here is set up your blog automation. set up something that's on on a on a daily basis generating and producing content. So you go here to campaigns and autoblocks, new campaign. Let's just call this my gardening automatic publisher, right? And enable autoblog. Now there's a few modes you can choose right here. You can choose the full automation mode, plan mode, and automation with review. Now you notice that all these uh stem from a feed again because we built our keyword feed, right? The feed is where all this stuff is going to be born out of, right? the the the generation of the content is going to be born out of a feed. So all these are born out of a feed. Now the difference is that this one automatically pulls in it automatically, excuse me, pulls in the info from the feed, generates it and publishes it straight to your site. This one it pulls in the info from the feed, generates it, but then you have to review it. So if you want to like if you don't want AI to fully automate the whole thing, you want to review things, you can fully you excuse me, you can manually review every single post every single day if you want to do that. This one is a plan automation mode where you basically it's it's it's way more manual. You wouldn't want this one if you're just trying to set up the full auto full automation thing. If you want, excuse me, if you want to fully set up your AI SE automation, we'll just go with this or this one. Ideally, this one. This is a full automation one. Now, hit continue. Now, here's where things get fun. First, you select the feed you want. We my gardening site feed. Oh, I think it's Yeah, my garden site. Then, select your integration because again, you need to integrate with your site with your CMS as we talked before. And then the interval. Now the interval like how often you want to post this will depend on what your competition is doing. Okay? Now don't think that there's oh if I post 10 times a day will I will I be penalized by Google or if I post 100 times a day will doesn't matter. The the frequency of posting doesn't matter. What matters is the quality of the content. Okay? You you can put out 10 pieces a day if they're actually valuable. If they satisfy the search intent of your customers. if it's actually proper content that teaches them something, that gets them to learn something, that gets them introduced to your brand, like this right here. Well, there's no issue. Google has issues with spam if it's trash content. Now, can AI produce bad quality content? Of course, but so can humans. Our job is to instruct the AI on how to produce the highest quality content that satisfies the search intent of our potential customers the best way possible. And we do that with stuff like, for example, the knowledge base right there. We do that for example with stuff like having a proper keyword feed that gives us the right keywords for our business based on our competition and our main uh niche. Okay. So there's tweaks we do right here to make sure that the content we put up there is high quality. So in terms of the interval, sure you can look at your competition, put out more than them, but just just be reasonable with it. Just start every day. Post one every day, right? And then keep on increasing it based on how you see the traffic going up, based on how you see the mentions going up. Okay? And then again, you can you can set this up and let it run. And then if you're not happy with the the speed at which you're getting traffic, the speed at which you're getting mentions, just increase it, double it, go slowly. Okay, go slowly. Then you can also randomize the time if you want. And then select how many articles you want to push out per per batch. Okay? Then just hit create. And if I create right now, right, what's going to happen is that it's going to pull in the info from the feed, the curious feed. It's going to automatically generate articles and publish them to my site. Now, I won't do it right now because we need to like, okay, what's what's the content about? Like how's the content looking like? It's very important. So, we'll go over that right now. But before that, let me just go here to my uh uh my board again. Um we we cover this and there's a a small step right here because we have to um tailor the content. So, let me show you first the default output. So, the these like like these all these articles, this is their default output for this brand. It's a title, uh little little intro, um who wrote the article, feature damage, table of contents, and then this basically this is basically their um uh their structure. Their structure usually usually all the same, right? All I think these are H2s. Let me just triple check. H2. Yeah, H2. They I don't think they usually have H3s, but yeah, it's pretty straightforward with in article images, uh internal links, uh links to other external sources. for example, this links out to a external source edu domain, Penn State University, I think. So there you go again. So to ferment some of the the the claims they make, right, about their brands, whatever, they link out to Wikipedia and other external sources that are trustworthy in Google's eyes. So this is this is their default template. Okay, pretty straightforward. So we can create one for our brand. Now, you can use Arro's default template, which I'll show you how it looks like. Um, this is just the the default. Again, you can configure it, but the default if you just have this set up automatically, this is what your output's going to be looking like. So, this right here, it's going to have, let me just show you this for card detailing, for example, it's going to be this title, okay, little intro, feature image, uh, table of contents, little intro, keyway section, and then H through in article image, and by default, it has bullets, tables, and quotes as internal links, as external links, as well as more in article images, and has also uh in article videos that are relevant to what your content is about. So this is the default basically and there's then there down there there's a FAQ section and then that's basically it. This is the default. Now we can tailor this. If this works for you then great. Uh but if not we can tailor this and we will we will tailor this. By the way these images look weird because this is the style I chose. Uh I mean if I can find other images right here. You can choose different styles of images. This this is like a real image. So you can choose different images if you guys want. Let me see if I can. Uh yeah. So there's different types of images you want. You can choose if you're using AI for the image generation, which we will use AI for that. Um, you can put any style you want, realistic, pixel art, I mean, anything you want basically. Um, so let's go over that, right? Let's go over that. So, let's go over the article generation. Then then the automation. So, right here, you should have on your account a a default campaign right here, which is where you can use the testing. So, the default article only allows for two inputs. Your keyword that you're targeting and the title. Let's do an example. For example, let's just do garden beds. Let's just do um how uh setting up a garden bed in the desert for let's see if this works. Add keywords. So, here is where it gets fun because now you can uh take a look at the input. So, there's a lot of things we can do here. And again, you can save these as a template. So then when your automatic blog is running on when your fully automated SEO system AIO system is running, you can refer to this template that you saved. So um let's start with the bottom. So do you want your template to have videos so you can automate videos or not? If you do want videos in your articles, right, you can select specific channels you want those videos to come from. If you don't like we will just the AI the AI, excuse me, is just going to find the most relevant videos and add them to your articles. But if you want to like force it to only find videos from certain channels, you can do it right here. Now, I recommend enabling this and just leave it as as is because it gives the AI more um supply of of videos to put here. So, I just enable this right here. Then images, you can choose between AI images, stock photos, or your own custom images. If you do want to use custom images, you can upload them right here in the customization tab. So, you can upload your own brand's images so that on the when the content is written, it uses your own images that you've set up in certain folders, right? It's pretty straightforward. I usually go for a images because there there's just they're just fantastic nowadays and they get people to like really locked in. You can choose how many images you want, right? And then the styling. Again, we have it here as retro pixel pixel art because what you saw with the Tesla one, but you can do a hyper re realistic. Okay. Vistic. Okay, there you go. Um, then external linking. So, we want the content, as these guys do as well, again, to link out to external sources to validate any claims we're making or um link out to any sources we might mention. Again, just to re reiterate, what we're doing right now is setting up the template, the article template. So, then when you have the full automation going, right, the cure research, right, to to the fun content creation and publishing, it publishes the content, excuse me, it generates the content with the custom template you're creating. in this case with a featured image XYZ how many images a video link. So we're basically building out the template of your content which can be customizable in any way you want. Okay. So you can include for the external links you can include certain sources or exclude certain sources. Maybe you want to like maybe for example often times like if you're bu in this case right here we wouldn't want to have this article link to our competitors. I mean you might want that but if you don't you can just exclude all your competitors right here. So you don't link to our competitors. Okay. Then internal linking. So we want our piece of content to be interlin. So we want this article to link to this one and this one to link to that one and this one to link to a product that's mentioned right here. Hey, you mentioned the garden beds link out to the Shopify store product listing that has the garden bed so people can buy it. So internal linking structure is extremely important. And the way you need to do this is just go copy the domain right here. Find sitemap find and it's going to just find you the sitemap which the site map is just basically uh a list of all the pages on your site. Let's just test and preview right here. It'll show you it'll give you all the pages present uh on the site which again is very important because when when we're producing content we want to drive the user and link out to our products, our services, our contacts page and all that good stuff. There you go. So these are all the pages on the site. All them. Okay, it's pretty straightforward. All the pages on the site. So the AI when it's generating the content, excuse me, when it's generating the content in any way in any place it sees fit, it's linking out to any of these pages and you can select how many links you want per per header. We just do six. Okay. Then the structure, right? You can enable and disable all these sections, the key to key takeaway section. As you saw before, we can disable this. I like to have it enabled because it gives me a way for not just for the readers to just see if this is worth reading, but for the LLMs when they're picking something up. If you have a key takeaway section at the top, they're able to see, okay, how relevant is this content super quick. Okay, so this is a good one for that uh conclusion and FAQs. And you can also select the article size, right? And then also I have a call to action. This is the key, right? For if you have like a Shopify store or anything, right at the bottom of your content, you want to have a call to action to I mean getting their email, having them um buy from you, having them give you a call. So add a link right here and we'll automatically add an external header just with that direct call to action at the bottom. Uh formatting, you can play around with this stuff right here. It's pretty straightforward. Knowledge base. Make sure you connect your knowledge base right here. Choose your knowledge in based on connected. So that that's the way in which the only way in which we can have the AI produce content using our knowledge base your knowledge base excuse me. So the way in which you won't produce AI slop then the content type you can select the language. I mean there's over 150 different languages. Uh this is pretty cool. If you if you want to set up this full AISO automation for international niches you can. So just go ahead and do what you will with that. Uh target country as well. Very very important. Tone of voice point of view formality and then some advanced features right here which again you can play with. Again, there's there's a full description on what all this does, what all this stuff does. And you can even have it produce content in multiple languages at once. So, we just a click of a button. It's going to be producing content in Spanish, Portuguese, English all at once. So, again, you compare all these ones here in question, let me know. Then the outline uh which we won't play with right now. And then just the main details and hit save changes. Now, this is the default template. Now, if you want extra customization, if this is not enough for you, so this will be enough to do this stuff right here, right? and then see success that all these guys saw. This is basically what they did, right? But if you want some something extra, right? If you want to really customize the output, all the content, well, what you do here is you go to article templates and hit create custom template. Now, this allows you to do virtually anything. So, it's kind of hard to explain, but you can give it a generation prompt and the markdown outline of your content. Let me show you an example. Let's say, right, I wanted to create a piece of content that was not like a a simple article like listical, whatever. Like, let's say I want let's say I wanted to create like a a comparison article, a a piece of content that compared my garden beds with my competitor's garden beds or my products with their products or my software with their software or whichever. I mean, I want to compare and and comparison based content is great because I can capture my competitor's keywords and I can often times rank for my competitor's keywords. Um, this is I'll leave a link for a video down below that goes over this in depth, but producing comparison page type content is one of the most valuable SEO strategies that you can implement right now. But again, if if I were to explain that here, it would be like a huge long video. So, if you want to learn a bit more about that, the actual strategy, because this is a video on how to set it up. If you want to learn the strategy and the types of content you should be producing based on your niche, please go watch that. I'll leave it down below in the description. So, don't worry. Now again let's say I did want to I did want to produce an article comparing two products for example like I'll show you an example. So these these guys are are a software company uh thinkic and they just basically allow you to host your online course if you do have one. Now some of the pages they build is comparison pages. They make content comparing them versus the competition right and is pretty straightforward article with top features. Then there's a table comparing them with the competition images. So it's literally a comparison article right comparing or a comparison piece of content comparing them with the competition. And they have these for like all other competitors. Uh so them versus another competitor. So they pretty much all follow the same template. And this stuff ranks on Google gets a ton of traffic by the way. Um so let's say we want to do something similar. Okay. What you can do again and you by the way you can associate these different templates to multiple automatic blogs. So you can have multiple automatic blogs running and you can have one publishing content about comparisons, right? One publishing content that's informational, one publishing content about about pain points, products, whatever. can have multiple ones running on in simultaneously. But again, let's just say we want to do one that's or a comparison page. Well, what you can do is go here uh new article template. I'll just show you one actually where where is it? Uh comparison pages. So again, what we can do here is again we can add a generation prompt and you can set up the outline. Now generation prompt is supposed to characterize what the article is about. For example, you're writing a comparison page for my brand, my brand. You need to add variables right here. By the way, that's why this is kind of tricky. Um, that will compare it to every single competitor, a variable competitor out there. My brand is a software that allows people to host and sell their online courses, whatever. I want people to talk about competitor features, whatever. So, I give it a a generation prompt and tell, hey, yeah, listen, here's what the content is going to be about. And then right here is where I tell you, hey, listen, here's the outline. Okay, so in this case, the header, the the H1 is going to be top features and then my brand competitor. So this is going to pull in based on the what you associate the variables to be my brand and the competitor brand. So when I do go and generate the article right here, right, I just put in my brand, competitor brand, and I can separate them by commas if you want to both generate a bunch of them, a bunch of them, excuse me. Um, so again, going back here, hopefully it's not too confusing, right? I give it the markdown outline. Hey, I want an H1, a short intro, then an H2, then I want another paragraph. I can do uh then image. Let me just show if there have an example right here of one of the images. Let's see. Yeah, there you go. H1 featured image little intro. H2 featured image or excuse me in article image little intro. So I can customize anything I want. If I wanted like three images together, I could just do this. Okay, now there's going to be three images together. If I want to like image at the bottom and I want like an H3 right here, I could just do uh H3 with three hashtags, conclusion, whatever. So again, I can infinitely customize how I want my article to be my piece of content. Again, if I wanted to be something like this, oh, if I wanted to be, for example, a title and then a table right off the bat and then an image and then another title with a paragraph and then another image, I can do that here. Literally, I can do anything I want here by just building out my my markdown outline and stacking it against my generation prompt. Again, this could be a video in of itself, and it is. If you if you click here, watch the third, you can see exactly what you can do with this. But you can basically if you want extra customization, if that thing that we showed before isn't enough, you can fully customize it fully with this. Okay. So then once you have your template, once you have everything set up, once you have like the keywords ready to go for, once you have it connected to your site so that you can um publish it to your site, right, you can now start the generation by enabling your automatic blog as you saw before. And also right now you have your the content template, the kind of content that's going to be published to your site. Well, once that's ready, just go here again and enable your autoblog. Um, right here, right? You should have this created, just enable it, right? And you you can you're going to have a visualization visualization, excuse me, of the generations and the stuff that that published to your site successfully, right? Again, this gives you a basically a view view of like what was done like how it's been been going. Uh what's the um frequency of posting if they're live? You can see you can see the previous. Let me just go here. This one is enabled. You can see the previews if they're live, how they look like. Okay, it literally goes back to your site and shows you, this is just a test site, shows you how the post looks like. Okay, you literally have a full overhead view of what the robots are doing for you, right? You can see everything in one place. And then in the overview tab, you can even see like the activity of your content, how much you're publishing, etc. Then we'll go over tracking the LLM mentions and all that stuff and the AI agents as well. So hopefully by now you have everything you need to fully set up all this stuff right here. Okay. Now I want to go over this right here. How you can set up AI agents to fix little tiny issues you you might have on your site. And this is also done inside this using the uh site optimizers. Now here's exactly what this does. This takes in right your website URL the language you want and the all the pages you want to analyze and it will for all these technical issues not just analyze them but fix them. It's like a little not one but multiple AI agents that crawl your site, crawl every single page you want and fix things. Let me show you an example. So right now I did an analysis for just 50 pages. And for these 50 pages, it analyzed issues on all these fronts. Page titles, metad descriptions, canon can cononical, excuse me, image all text, internal links, and schema. Now, not only that, it tells me what's wrong with it and how to fix it. And then it fixes it for me. That's where the AI agentic part of it comes in. For example, let's say here internal links, right? Analy analyze 50 pages on my site. I know often times like we've had sites for a long time, clients site your sites and maybe you've created pages and you forgot to interlink them or you didn't even like realize, right? What this does is this goes in and finds pages on your site, for example, this page. It suggests say, listen, you we think you should link this page to this one using this anchor text. excuse me, this page to this one using this anchor text and again gives you the reason, excuse me, why. So, not only tells you, hey, listen, you have this issue right here. We think this page should be interlink with this one using this anchor text. Gives you the why. And if you agree with the why, right? Then you can hit apply and the little AI agents will go onto your site and boom, they'll just create that internal link for you automatically. You can apply all these ones or you can discard and this is always analyzing your site on the back end. Now, same thing for example image alt text, right? There's in fact a bunch of images on our site without alt text, right? It recognizes what the images are. And again, instead of me having to go and log into WordPress or Shopify or whatever, I just if I agree with all these ones, I just bulk apply and fix 20 images without alt text. And if you don't know, like all text is a very important thing about about SEO. For example, for page titles, right? You can like fix stuff. Let me just show you an actually example. For example, for this page again, we're we're a software company, right? If I go to arvo.com/go, this is simply a page that goes over, hey, we just like we integrate with WordPress, we also integrate with ghost. Ghost is like a CMS. Pretty straightforward, like a feature page. If you were like um e-commerce store be like a product page, if you're like a local business like it would be like a service page, location page, doesn't matter. Okay, so here it says, "Hey, listen. We think you should change the current age one the current page from this to this." And here's why. It says this title is more descriptive and includes relevant keywords like AI powered SEO blog writer and free trial which are likely search terms for users looking for a writing tools. It also maintains brand visibility by including ARO enhancing clickthrough rates. So not only does it think about the keyword sprinkling in in the title which is good for SEO but it also thinks about the clickthrough rate like how can we develop and write an a page title that would increase our clickthrough rates. If you don't know what this is, like if I go here to uh for example, this the page title is this stuff right here. This is the page title, right? Uh let me just so this is a page title. This is the page description. M met title, metad description, met title, metad description. And even if I rank like third right here, like the impact this has, what's written right here and right here has such a great big impact because if this is more compelling, I'll click I'll just click this one. Okay, so very very important and again this does it all for you. And if you can just skim through these ones, the ones you agree with, you just hit apply. The ones you don't agree with, just hit discard. So again, it fixes all these boring issues for you. Page titles, meta descriptions again as well. Uh schema, schema markup. Again, if I mean, this is going to be a very long video if I go over what this is exactly. I'll leave a link down below in the description for what this is and why it's important. But if you I'm guessing if you sort of made it this far, you know what schema is and how it can be helpful. We just generate the code for you and tell you, you listen, we think you should apply this schema code to this page and then you just hit apply. It will just apply the code just like that. FAQ schema, article schema, and there's many, many more. So all this does, it's basically deploying these little AI agents onto your site and they're looking at all the potential issues and saying, "Hey, we flagged all this stuff. Which ones you want to fix?" Right? Which ones do you agree with us? Right? And by the way, when when we built this, we wanted to make sure that we gave you the why. because if you don't agree, just hit discard. Okay, so again, fully set this up because I mean, just why not just it's always running in the background telling you issues to fix. So these little AI agents fix your technical SEO. And by the way, the reason why this is so important is because SEO and again maybe if you watched this far, you know what it is, but SEO is made out of three pillars. On page SEO, off-page SEO, off-page SEO, and technical SEO. Technical SEO is what you just talked about like your site speed, your schema markup, your meta tiles, meta descriptions, uh internal linking structure, um image all text, all that boring stuff. Off-page SEO is bu basically building backlinks, link building, okay? Uh which we have again free courses on. I'll leave them all in the description as well you guys can see. And then on page, which is everything that happens on your site, the content you generate, how you generate that content, which keywords that content is targeting, all that that stuff that we just went over in the first part of this tutorial. I say this because if you want to succeed in the SEO space, if you want to see the results these guys are seeing right here, for example, well, you need to target and tackle the three pillars of SEO. If you just target only one, it's going to be very hard depending on your depending on your on your niche. So, targeting the three pillars is very important. That's why I mentioned right here, just make it the easy way out. Just use AI agents to fix all these boring issues. Okay? So, after that, you can also set up an automation to track this stuff right here. How you're performing. Okay? How are your brand performing? How is your performing here and here? Well, you go here to Arvo again, click on analytics and rewards, right? And for the classic Google search traffic tracking, you can just go with the reports. But for the brand mentions, go here, new monitor, add your site right here. And what's going to do, it's going to take in your site, right? Based on your niche, your competitors, your brand, what you sell, all that. It's going to prepopulate and give you some prompts it thinks you should be showing up for, right? And it's it clearly see, for example, for the prompts, how to automatically generate and post articles to my blog. I can see okay we show up on perplexity I can see where we in fact show up right here we show up in a table format right and the sentiment because perplexity could be mentioning me right here but it could be trash talkinging me so it's very important that I see the visibility so this tracks vis excuse me the sentiment so this tracks visibility for chat GPT cla Gemini perplexi and gro and the sentiment of these LMS about your brand right again you can add as many prompts as you'd like or you can bulk import prompts and the idea here is that you can track and then in a graph format see like how well you're performing in terms of the visibility of all these LLMs and see if your efforts if the content you're producing to the site, right? If the technical issues you're fixing are in fact increasing dimensions right here. Because again, why would you pay $1,000 a month to just check this using this tool when you can just pay like a tenth of it to check it, plus have all these other stuff on top that fully automate uh your your SEO with AI. So, check this out. Again, I recommend you set this up after you have your automatic blog enabled because you'll just be able to see again the sentiment if you show up for which ones you show up for and how you show up for, right? Again, we show up in a table right here. It's quite valuable. So, that's it in that regard for the tracking. It's pretty straightforward. Again, took me like 30 seconds to explain because it's pretty straightforward. So, properly track stuff because how can you like see if you're succeeding if you don't track stuff? It's very important to track. And so, that's basically it. Now, I do want to go over some bonus stuff right here, but that's basically this is exactly step by step how you fully set up uh your your SEO on autopilot to achieve these similar results you see right here from all these guys. And there's many many many many more, but all these guys did exactly this. Even this German, I mean, there's German, there's English, there's there's many many there's infinite types of businesses we've worked with across multiple niches, across multiple countries. It it just works. So, if you want to fully set up your SEO with AI using Arvo, this is exactly how. Now, let's go over some bonuses. Um, I do want to also give you a coupon code at the end if you guys want to give this a go. Uh, so you guys don't pay the full price. Um, let's go over the bonus for the automatic research generation publishing from syndicated content. Here's what I mean. So, you saw before in beginning of the video where we go went over the feeds and we based all this stuff, all this automation based off of a keyword feed. However, there's also news feeds and RSS feeds and YouTube channel feeds. Here's how you can play this out. So let's start with the the YouTube channel feed again. Before the keyword feed, you set it up. It gives you a list of keywords right here. What you do is you put in a YouTube channel. Let's say let's go on YouTube right now for example and search for let's say gardening tips. Well, let's look at this channel right here. This channel is a channel of a guy that basically produces content in video format about gardening tips. Again, let's assume this is our niche. What we can do is we can take this guy's channel right here. Put it here. Just lit this. Hit create feed. Oh, there you go. Now, what this is going to do, much like the keyword feed, that's a live entity. It's going to pull in all of these guys YouTube views. And again, every 24 hours, if he has published a new one, it's going to publish it. It's going to be put in here live. So, it's again always working for you, always on the back end, working for you automatically. Don't forget about that. And so what we can do is as this guy is publishing valuable content about our niche, we can convert these 17 18minute videos into content in the written format and then uh upload it to our site. And if you're wondering if this works, well, it does. If you go to harvel.com/case studies, we had a guy do it. We have many, many more. We only made one case study out of it. A French guy do it right here where he did the exact same thing. He set up an automatic blog and there's even a case study right here where he set it up with a YouTube feed where he took a bunch of YouTube videos and he automatically as as the guy was publishing videos to the channel, the automatic blog would convert them into written posts and publishing them to their site. Now, one thing he did as well is the videos were in English and not only did he convert the medium of consumption from video to to written format, he converted the language to French. So you got to almost 6K a month in traffic just off of doing that. So again what you can do with this again you go here right here and you see it just just populated right here. So these are all the videos you guys are publishing and then you can go here and set up auto automatic blog right here. New campaign test enable auto blog full automation mode and then the feed of course is going to be the YouTube feed we just created. Right? So much like the keyword feed where it said live entity this is also a live entity. So, as this guy is publishing content, right, we're automatically going to be taking that content and writing articles and pieces of content about it and the videos are going to be embedded into the content fully automated for you. How cool is that? Now, you can also do an RSS feed or a news feed where basically search up for news in the in the in the news space, right? It takes in news from CNN, CNBC, Fox News, whatever for a specific type of uh uh specific keyword, right? It pulls all that in and as these guys are producing news articles, we take all those ones. We aggregated them into one piece of content. We push it out to our site. How can this be valuable? Well, just imagine like let's say we had a a site that we that about Pokemon for example where we like have our image right here. We have like blog post. Then we also have like a store or we sell like Pokemon cards and Pokemon plushies, whatever, right? And then we have so homepage right here. This is the menu. Uh Shopify store products. Then we have like a little section called news, right? Where if people click on this, it opens up this new section. This new page on the site that has much like a blog page will have a bunch of news about the Pokemon space. So why is this valuable? For two reasons. First, I mean for all the Pokemon enthusi enthusiasts that are going to the site, they have a dedicated news section that only talks about Pokemon news. Very valuable. And then because we have a dedicated session on your site that only talks about Pokemon news, the domain as a whole is going to become hyper relevant for anything and everything related with Pokemon. How cool is that, right? Let me show you another example. So, for example, Tesla um accessories. So, let's say if I'm this brand right here, uh let's say I'm this UK based brand that sells sells cars in specific Tesla accessories, right? Pretty straightforward, right? They saw all this stuff. What if they had a dedicated section right here on top saying, "Oh, actually even they might be a client of ours." Honestly, this is this would be like the biggest coincidence in the world. I do this. I do think these guys are client of ours. That's insane. Uh not too sure, but yeah, I do think they are. There you go. Perfect. I promise this was like random. They have this dedicated section about Tesla news. So, me as a Tesla enthusiast, I clearly, if I'm going to this site, I clearly have clearly have a Tesla car. I clearly have interested in stuff. So I now go here and I can see everything that's happening in the Tesla space. How cool is this? Not only that, but then the site as all their domain becomes more hyper relevant for all the keywords they want to target because these guys are the go-to for anything and everything Tesla. How cool is that? You can you can fully automate the whole thing using Arville ARV fully by just using a new keyword, excuse me, a news feed. So that's it. Long video. Hopefully it you guys made it all the way through. If you have any questions, let me know. And if you've made it this far, please use the code um let's just go auto blog for an extra 10% off. Okay, this will give you an instant 10% off. So again, if you guys made it this far, thank you so much. Just go out and set it up because you can see the results that I showed you before. This just works and you can fully automate all your SEO efforts using AI from the keyword research to the publishing do the generation, excuse me, to the publishing all on autopilot. And by the way, second favor, if you guys made it this far, please comment the word autoblog in the comments. This will tell me if you guys actually made it this far. And any comment on a YouTube video actually helps out the YouTube video, the YouTube algorithm, excuse me, excuse me, pushing the video out to more people. So, if you're going to be a trader and comment the words autoblog be amazing because it will help you to push this out to more people. Once again guys, thank you so much. And you can use the coupon code as well, autoblog for 10% off at checkout. Go out, use it, fully set up this automation because it does work. Once again, thank you so much and I'll catch you on the next one.