Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpV_W23hGGE
File: vasco-seo-tips/vasco-video-2
--------------------------------------------------

This site's traffic is 18.6 thousand per month and it all comes from Google because their domain ranks for 1.6 thousand keywords on Google, thus pulling in almost 20,000 a month in organic search traffic. Not only that, but they also rank or they get mentioned and cited by all these LLMs, so their brand is cited, is recommended by ChatGPT, Google's AI reviews, Perplexity, Gemini, and Copilot. And in this video I'm going to go over exactly how they're doing it, so you can just copy the whole thing. It's mainly US-based traffic. Now, I'll show you what I can show you about the domain before I show you the strategy. Now, they're a customer of ours, so I'll just keep it uh hidden. Uh they're a software business, okay? I'll just scroll down the site. They're SaaS, software as a service, okay? Here's their pricing page. You can see it starts at 250 a month again. They're a software business. Again, I I don't want to reveal the what the brand is. They're a real business. They're on G2, so yeah, it's a real business with uh social media, so it's a real-life actual business. And yeah, I want to go over what they're doing because getting almost 20,000 people a month to go to your site with organic traffic is not an easy task, but I want to break down exactly what they did and how you can do it, too. Now, by the way, I always like to uh look at this right here. This is basically a a value of uh an estimate of the value of this traffic. So, in other words, if you were to be a competitor of these guys, so if you were to pay Google Ads, if you were to bid on all these keywords with Google Ads to get this much traffic, you'd have to pay them Google Ads $11,000 a month. And they're getting this worth of traffic every single month um for free. Now, take me to look at at the keywords they rank for. Click here and here and look at Oh, by the way, before that, if you guys want to track your uh mentions across LLMs, so if you want to like see for which prompt you show up, well, you can use my tool. Go here into dashboard. I always show you this. I guess you guys can skip if you don't want to look at this. There's going to be timestamps in this video, but if you go here to analytics and reports, new monitor, add your site right here. What this will do is it will basically tell you if your brand shows up uh for um any of these LLMs, so GPT, Claude, Gemini, Perplexity, Grok, as well as the sentiment. So, in fact, if it does show up, if it is mentioned by LLMs, what's the sentiment? Are they saying good or bad things about you, right? You can track multiple prompts. We're tracking all these ones right now. You can add as many prompts as you like. You can even bulk import prompts. And I'll show you an example right now. For ex- For example, for the prompt uh how do I automatically generate and post post articles to my blog, I can see that only two LLMs mention my brand with a sort of neutral to positive sentiment. I can click this. I can see, okay, where is my brand mentioned? And I can see it's right here on a on the table. And I can see for the ones that uh don't mention my brand, like what brands do they mention? For example, these guys uh are mentioned right here. Uh let's see, for example, um these guys, the WP Robot, are mentioned and because they're being uh they're mentioned in this uh this source that's then cited for that prompt. Uh this also allows you to build backlinks in this way. Again, I I don't want to overcomplicate this. I'll leave a link for this link-building strategy in the description, but I don't want to I don't want to confuse you guys. So, going back here into the site, like what keywords are they ranking for and what type of content they're producing because to rank for all these keywords right here. Again, I'll have to add a couple of them. Uh they're in this Yeah, I mean, I have to add most of them because they're in the software space, but a very specific industry, so I guess I'll have to add them all to them. But the point is that if you want to rank for all these keywords, well, then you have to produce content around these keywords. So, point is point is what content are they producing? If you go here to top pages, you can see, okay, these are the pages on their site that get the most traffic. All these, okay? This one gets 9,000, 2,000. These are These are not even the homepage. The homepage is down here, gets only 5.3% of the traffic, okay? If you just do command F and type in blog, all of these right here are all blog pages. And if I open it up all of these right here, all these are simple article pages. All right, article pages. 25, whatever, okay? All these are article pages with a title, featured image, little intro, key takeaways section, all this. This page right here is pulling in, let's see, 10,000 people a month straight to their site, right? And this is all AI an article done with Arvin. This is the software that did it. This is They're actually clients of ours, that's why I'm hiding a bunch of stuff. The Arvin right here is actually doing this for them, right? If you go here to generations, I can quickly show you an example on how our article looks like. For example, for This is a news article uh for a for a Pokémon uh brand, whatever. Doesn't really matter right now. I did a video on this couple hours ago, but uh for example, uh let's see here, Mad Spa. Let's just do For example, this one, cost of shipping your car, car transport. I can click this. I can see, okay, this is all done with AI. Literally the same thing. Title in article, uh featured image, excuse me, table of contents, in-article images, internal links, external links, in-article videos, all this done fully automatically with AI. This is exactly what they're doing. These top pages are articles done with Arvin. This is all done with AI. Again, the images, the links, the videos, all this done. There's internal links to the articles of theirs. There's external links. There's images. All this done with AI. And these articles are pulling in people to their business. Again, videos, images, all these guys All these articles, excuse me, are pulling in thousands in traffic to their business. Traffic that's actually valuable, okay? So, the whole thing All they did here All they did is produce content that satisfies the search intent for the keywords that their target market is is searching for. And they used Arvin for it, right? I'm not too sure if they did it manually right here as you guys sa- as you guys saw, or if they're fully automating the whole thing with the auto blog cuz you can go here, automation blog, new campaign, uh my SaaS, uh full enable auto blog, full automation mode. You can go here and set how many articles you want it to publish, right? And then then frequency, every day, hour, week, whatever. And then just select your site, your integration. And um cuz you we integrate with all these these platforms right here. And then just have it run on autopilot uh for you, okay? But the reason why our content ranks is because a lot of stuff right here, but one of them is because of the knowledge base feature, which basically allows you to upload your brand's assets onto our AI brain. So, uh your website, YouTube videos, text documents, PDFs, bunch of these brand assets. So, then the AI is able to write brand-tailored content. So, no AI slop. That's why like we are the AI SEO tool with the most case studies because it just works. Like it just works. Um so, yeah, uh that's basically it. They're also using the AI agents as well, which again, you guys can see what it does right here. Basically finds issues on your site and fixes them for you automatically. It's pretty cool. Again, we've built a whole um SEO tool around this cuz it just works, okay? And so, if you're watching this right now, even if you don't want to pay for the software, just do it manually. Like produce content. People like And I maybe maybe I'm at fault for this as well. It's sometimes we try to overcomplicate SEO. Excuse me. [clears throat] SEO is quite simple. SEO is just about producing content that satisfies the search intent. If I produce a piece of an article, a news piece, a comparison page, whatever, a piece of content, and that piece of content is the one that Google thinks or AI thinks satisfies the search intent of this prompt or this keyword the best, well, then I'll rank first and I'll get all this traffic, right? And then of course, it's my job as a business owner to convert this traffic into paying customers, either by capturing the email there or mentioning my brand in a certain way. But that's a video for another time. That's conversions and sales. I just basically talk about traffic. And literally what these guys do right here is literally that. They're using our tool. They're using AI. They're leveraging AI to pull in this much traffic every single month. Now, they also build backlinks. Link building is also very important, that's why I also have videos on that. If you guys want, please check the links in the description. Um building backlinks is a core uh pillar of the SEO game, right? Part of the reason why this traffic is as it is is because again, they produce content, they fix their site's technical issues, and then they build uh backlinks. That's why this works. But again, I I want to like pull back a bit and show you that and tell you again that this is super simple. Again, they're just just producing articles, producing content with images, links, etc. that satisfies the search intent of the people searching for them. And thus, they pull in this much traffic. And this literally this article published using Arvin right here is pulling in 10,000 people every single month. So, that's pretty cool. And by the way, little article to action, I just built uh this is free. It's a 100% free extension that analyzes a bunch of stuff on your site. It gives you an overall score. Tells you what you need to fix. Gives you some Gives you some error score, siteability, authority, formats, uh gaps of of your AI citations. Analyzes your content as well, uh your metas, your links, your schema. If you're a local business, it analyzes a bunch of stuff about your local business, which is pretty cool. This is all developed by me in the info in here, especially in the local tab. It is um is pretty like pretty accurate built. And I only include stuff here that I think are of hyper value that actually can rank your local business. I know this is not about local businesses, but this uh extension, free Chrome extension, uh those help those also help local businesses, but mostly mainly helps with all sites. So, if you type in SEO Inspector or Arvin SEO Inspector in the Google Chrome Store, I'll leave a link for this in the description. You can get this. Again, 100% free, um which should help out in some extent. So, yeah, that's it. Again, they used Arvin for this. I know I'm biased. I know that on this channel I speak about Arvin all the time. It is my tool, so I'm biased. If you buy it, I make money. That said, it just works, okay? That's it. If you want more training, check out this right here. This is going to be a tutorial on backlinks, on how to build backlinks for free. Check that out. Thank you so much for watching. I'll catch you on the next one. Bye-bye.