Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dXhUg9Eu0xM
File: vasco-seo-tips/vasco-video-3
--------------------------------------------------

G E O tutorial or in other words, generative engine optimization tutorial or in even other words, how the hell do you get your site to show up first in chat GPT, perplexity, Grok, Gemini and any of these other LLMs. Like how do you make your brand be cited, recommended or mentioned in all these LLMs? Well, today I'm going to show you how because my brand actually shows up as you can see right here. We are visible across chat GPT, Claude, Gemini, perplexity, Grok as well as well as track the sentiment by the way. So if in fact they do mention our brand, if they say good or bad things about us. Actually Grok used to say bad things about us, but we've sort of changed the sentiment of the LLM and I'll teach you how to do that as well in a bit and we're also tracking for all these prompts. For example for the prompt, how do I automatically generate and post articles on my blog? I can see click this right here. I can see which LLM is mentioning my brand. In this case only perplexity and Grok. If I click even further, I can see where. Where is my brand mentioned and in their mention right here in a table format and I can track as many prompts as I like and I can even bulk import prompts. Now, the big question here is that okay, sure, this is great. Your brand shows up, your brand is mentioned, but how do you get your brand? So my brand is mentioned, but how do you get your brand to be mentioned? Well, it's pretty straightforward. The way these LLMs work and the way if you go right now to chat GPT and type in for example what's the best I don't know flower fertilizer. I live in LA and need something for strawberries. I don't know if that makes sense. I don't know. But yeah, how how like what all these all these brands show up and yours doesn't? Well, GEO, however you're going to call it AIO, AISEO, I think it's a dumb to just call it SEO. The reason why I titled this video GEO is because people search for it and so there you go, that's why. But the way in which you get your brand to show up here and the reason why these brands so that you'll see right here show up here and yours doesn't is because for this search prompt right here, the brands that best satisfy this search intent show up. And this may be sounds like a bit of a jargon and and buzzwordy, but that's basically it. Let me show you an example before we dive deep into this. So for example, these guys right here, they're a gardening shop. They sell gardening supplies, right? They have their main site where of course they put out content on gardening like just regular blog posts, articles, stuff, valuable stuff. But then they have their Shopify store right here. So they sell gardening supplies like flower beds and and seeds and all this stuff about their niche. Again, I'm going over this niche, but this works for any niche honestly. Just e-commerce, software, uh we're a software company so this works for us too. Agency, I mean doesn't matter what you do, this works regardless. So again, they sell for example these garden beds. Now, one of the ways, right? And one one of the things they do here in these e-commerce stores that they don't stop their their product page right here. No, if you keep on scrolling down, you can see, right? Product specs, details, how to use, specific gadgets that are used. If you keep on going further, there's even the material breakdown. So they say for for example like, "Hey, this is thick ultra durable steel. It's painted out of toxic non-toxic, excuse me, USDA approved paint." Just this little one-liner can do wonders for you. Why? Because when I'm right here in chat GPT, this works like as a funnel, right? You any LLM works as a funnel. So you give it a prompt, it gives you an answer. You give it a prompt, it gives you an answer. You go back and forth, back and forth forever until the answer you have down here satisfies the search intent of your prompt. Right? That's basically how this works. Okay? And because with LLMs you get to be hyper specific because again, if I just go on Google right now, right? If I search for something, right? I just search for something once and maybe there's the result one, result two, result three until result 100. And usually like if you're not using Google's AI mode, which I'm just quickly show you right here, best flowers for desert garden, right? I can just go about my day and click here, click these links, etc. If I'm not using Google's AI mode, which is basically Google's version of chat GPT, I can't dive deeper. As soon as I go in here as soon as I enter this, sure I can go in and and do the funnel thing. I can give keep prompting it back and forth, back and forth. But that's basically the main difference between the between these two. Now they're they're heavily tied together because there's a correlation between how well you rank on the classic Google as well as with the the number of mentions you get or the how often you get mentioned across LLMs. But more on that later on. I'll send you also a free course on how to do the classic SEO because you can't just do GEO. You can't just do AISEO. You have to do the the classic SEO to be shown on on on Google SEO on GEO. I'll give you another example. For example for our brand, we're not the biggest brand by the way. There's many many many many bigger brands than us, but um there's a correlation between how well we are our how how well our organic traffic goes up, right? This organic traffic and the mentions right here across these LLMs. Okay? So they're tied together. It's a correlation, not a causation, but a correlation. Excuse me. Correlation, not causation, yes. Now by the way, again, reason why it's correlation, not causation is because just because you rank first doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to get cited uh first or cited more often, right? Again, correlation, not causation. 1/3 1/3 actually Ahrefs, this brand made a case study on this. 1/3 of the brands cited right here in these little answers when you prompt chat GPT or any other LLM, 1/3 of the brands cited right here are nowhere to be seen on Google search. So for the same prompt right here or a variation of that prompt right here on on Google versus chat GPT or any other LLM, right? 1/3 of the brands that are mentioned right here in the answer prompt are nowhere to be seen in the top in the top 100. So get they get no human clicks right here, but they get indirect human clicks or indirect human mentions because sure, if I type in something right here, I'm maybe I click the first, second, maybe I click the third result. I don't even go to the fourth one, let alone the 100th one. That being said, AI doesn't care. If the AI has to go through the 100 100th result and pull that in into the answer to give you the best results possible, then it will. So that's where this 1/3 comes in. Again, 1/3 of the of the pages cited by LLMs are nowhere to be seen in Google search. This is good because this opens up a whole new way of getting mentioned and and cited and cited because you're not just competing for the top top five I guess of Google because as long as you have the content there, it will be surfaced. Going back to this example, just the fact that right right here mentioned non-toxic USDA approved paint. If I give it a prompt, let's say for example, hey, I'm I'm a gardener, beginner gardener. I bought some garden beds made out of wood last year and they the the rain messed them all up. I'm looking for something about more durable. The answer should be something like, "Hey, sure, there's a couple brands that sell metal garden beds. Here's a few." Then you say, "Ah yeah, sure, but I've heard that these metal beds are painted with these toxic paints that then the paint flows through to the dirt and then the vegetables feed off of that dirt and then you're basically eating toxic paint." Then it says, "Yeah, sure, that's actually true. By the way, I found this brand that sells metal garden beds with non-toxic USDA USDA approved paint. Here's the link." Right? And the only reason why this is being mentioned right here, excuse me, this brand right now is being mentioned is because they say it right here in a one-liner. And this Shopify store this page would most likely never rank for non-toxic USDA approved paint garden beds. Most likely it wouldn't. Or non-toxic garden beds because maybe that's a very competitive keyword. But it doesn't matter because even even if it doesn't rank, right? It can get cited because again, with LLMs we're hyper specific. And I know I'm being super theoretical, but you we need to understand the theory before actually do anything in practice, right? This is how this works. This is how GEO works or however you want to call it. I don't know. Like GEO, AIO, AISEO, doesn't matter. It's basically search, right? It is search. And by the way, if you ask me, I think chat GPT is not going to be around it's not going to be around in like two years from now because why would I go on Google to go on chat GPT to ask my question when I can just ask the question right here on to Google. And if I want to use the if you want to use the back and forth, I just click here AI mode and now boom, I'm I'm here. I can just go and do the funnel thing and prompt it back and forth, prompt answer, prompt answer, prompt answer back and forth. So there's no need and Google has a way more data than GPT has and will have ever. So yeah, but that's I I I digress. That's not really part of the video. So now that we know that we need to produce content that satisfies the search intent, right? The reason why our brand is mentioned for this prompt right here. So best auto blogging software for SEO. Reason why we are showing we all these LLMs mention us. Perplexity doesn't, but all these ones do is because there you go right here. It's because in the sources, right? Let me see if I can find in these sources right here, let's see. Ahrefs. Boom. They pull in info from let's see what this is. This page. Eight best blogging automation tools and of course we are mentioned right here. Ahrefs. So again, reason why our brand is being mentioned for this prompt and Grok is citing us right here is because excuse me, and Grok is mentioning our brand is because it's pulling our brand mentions from these citations. And of course if you look at the citations, we actually show up here. Okay? So how could we apply this to your business? Well, on one hand you can just go here and add add your brand and then add as many prompts as you would like to be mentioned for. Put those prompts in and see who shows up. Let's say for example, I want to show I want to rank for what's the best SEO software for agencies. We don't like we literally no LLM has mentioned our brand for this, which kind of sucks, but I want to I want to show up for this prompt. So what would I do? I'd go here and here, excuse me, and see okay, which brands are mentioned right here? What are excuse me, what are all the brands mentioned right here, right? And where is the the citations coming in from? So why is this brand mentioned? Well, because chat GPT felt like this brand was appropriate to mention because they found it found it in this citation. So I'll just open this up this citation and see okay, so this is a review based citation. So maybe I can either one, create a similar type of page, a review page, or I can just maybe pay these guys to let's see if maybe I can get in touch with these guys to see, "Hey, how much do you guys charge to write a review review on my brand?" Right? And then I have a similar article right here published on these guys' site on a domain that I know it's currently being cited for for the prompt I want to show up for. Okay? So this is what people call I guess prompt hijacking. You can call this whatever you want. Uh maybe just call it SEO. Uh so this is the very first way. Is again, be specific, make a list of all the prompts you want to rank for, or all the prompts you want to show up for, okay? Uh see the brands that are showing up for those prompts, right? Look at where like where Why is Ahrefs being mentioned right here? Well, because they're being they they're being pulled in from this citation. What's this citation? It's a listicle. Best SEO tools for 2025. Ahrefs versus Semrush. So I know that for this prompt uh right here most of the this the cited sites are either listicle, right? Best SEO tools, comparison pages, review pages. So either I produce and create these type of citation uh cite- citable content on my site. I can actually do this right here on my site. I don't. I should. Actually, I should do this. I should like have a overview on our actual site. It would be smart of of us. Uh we don't like we just have um we have a bunch of stuff. We have feature pages as well. We have a bunch of cool a bunch of cool stuff. But this tells me okay right now for this prompt that I want to rank for the brands that are being cited cuz excuse me, the brands that are being mentioned are being mentioned because they're being cited on listicle content, eight best uh review-based content, and uh listicles as well. So this tells me that okay, if I want to show up for I want to do this excuse me, I want to give I want I need to give LLMs in this case ChatGPT what they want. Just like Google like with Google if you type in how to tie a tie, right? It tells you what it wants. It wants videos, short form in specific, right? That's all it wants. Because only after there's all those videos that show up actually articles, okay? And by the way, uh little tip, uh this tells you a lot about a SERP, a search engine ranking page, which is the more towards the left something is the more important. And of course short videos are very important and videos and images and forms only then like regular articles because again, how to tie a tie is a visual thing. So people want to see videos. And short videos are more important videos. So if I want to you know, if I want to rank for this keyword this prompt forever I know I know I have to produce short form content. Now how does this relate to this? Well, again, if I know I want to show up for this prompt and I see that all the content being cited is from listicles and review pages then smart for me to actually put out that type of content on my site. I can just go on my site and type in and create create like a go into my blog and produce an article on a I don't know, review of Ahrefs or 10 best We actually do this of course, right? 10 best listicles uh 10 best AI software for agencies. I can actually produce this on my site on my domain leveraging my domain power or just paying these guys to do it for me. It's just like if you're building backlinks basically, okay? So that's the the I guess the very first thing. Okay, the second thing is that if you want to be less granular and less analytic about it, let's say maybe you don't really know necessarily the necessarily the excuse me, necessarily the prompt you want to target, okay? Well, what you can just do is you can simply just produce content about your brand. I'll give you an example. For example, for Ahrefs, right? What we do in terms of the content we produce, right? We produce for example, we're we're a software company that of course we want to attract people who want to use our software to rank higher on Google and get cited by LLMs. So we have offered a ton of features like these AI agents that automatically find issues on your site and fix the issues for you. We offer this auto blogging feature that automatically does the keyword research, automatically generates and posts content straight to your site. That's why of course I want to rank for the prompt uh right here. Where is it? What's the best What's the best auto blogging software? Of course, only two of these LLMs mention us and I want to show up in all because of course we offer that that feature right here. And in the content I put out like for example, SaaS SEO course. I want to rank for this because again, it's a full-on course explained in written format and video format. I want my brand and this course to get cited when uh people search for a SaaS course because I want to capture SaaS SaaS companies because we also serve SaaS companies that can use our software. So we produce content around that stuff, okay? We produce pieces of content around a bunch of our other stuff. I mean I've made videos on made videos on this. For example, we produce content about alternatives. So seven best competitor alternatives. So these guys are a competitor of ours. So I want to show up for the prompt or any variation of this prompt like let's say someone is using this these guys and they're looking for an alternative. I want to show up for that. I want my brand to be mentioned for that. I I want to show up for that be it on Google on the classic Google rankings for example like this. Like I want to show up for this. I want to be I want Ahrefs to be the first one. Be it right here or be it in the Google's AI mode right here or in ChatGPT or anything. Right now, we aren't. Now again, a way which you can change this is to produce more content around this. Make this content even better. This is by the way all done with um with Ahrefs. I mean I I I I sold you this software enough in this in this in this channel already. You guys know I own this software by now. If you guys want to see exactly what it does, the the content writer, you can just click here to watch the videos and this breaks this down uh step by step. I think I even had a demo somewhere around here. There it goes. You can see like a preview of the content. Um but point being is that to show up in these LLMs, you have to produce content that satisfies the search intent. That's basically it. And that's the same thing for Google for the classic SEO. The reason why these guys show up first right here in the classic SEO is because this satisfies the search intent of this keyword the best, okay? It's a listicle type of content. So I know if I want to rank for this I have to produce listicle type of content. Top 10, top 10. And also of course then other metrics come into play. If I put plug in these guys right here and I can if I look at their domain rating, we have a DR of 54. They have a DR of let's see here uh a DR of 67. So their domain rating is a bit higher than ours. So that that also comes into play. Like that that's where like to to improve this score you can build backlinks and I have a a bunch of tutorials on how to build backlinks all for free by the way. I have like on how to build backlinks all for free by the way. Uh hours and hours and and enough content. I'll I'll link all this stuff down below uh because SEO is made out of out of three pillars. On-page SEO, off-page SEO and technical SEO. On-page again is everything that happens on your site, the content you publish, what you write, how you write, all this stuff, keyword research, all that stuff. Off-page SEO is basically building backlinks. And technical SEO is the boring stuff like site speed, schema markup, and all this stuff right here which by the way, quick Ahrefs plug, you can find issues with your technical SEO and fix them right here in the site optimizer tab. You just add your site right there. Uh add how many pages you want to analyze, the language, and what it will do is it will pull up uh a bunch of your a bunch of issues on your site basically. It will find out if you're missing internal links. It say hey, by the way, we think you should link this page with this one using this anchor text. It tells you the why. And if you agree, you just hit apply and the internal link will be created automatically for you. So if you have So if you have a bunch of pages on your site, an old site, a new site, a client's site, I don't care. It doesn't matter, right? It will find okay, thanks. This page should link with this one, this one with this one, this one with that one using this anchor text. And if you agree with this, you can just fully build out an internal linking structure just like that. This is very important for SEO and also for user experience. Uh same thing for page titles, meta descriptions, canonicals, images, alt text. Find all the images on your site without alt text. Schema markup. There's a bunch of stuff. This is very important. Technical SEO is very very important. I won't dive deep into this, but again, I'll leave links for it for courses down below on how this all this works. But again it's very important and these three pillars are very important. On-page, off-page, and technical SEO. And you need these three to succeed in the SEO space. And by the fault, if you succeed in the SEO space, you'll succeed in the GEO or generative engine space. In other words, if you rank higher on Google 2/3 of the times that will directly impact how well you perform in uh AI search. Now if you want more in-depth videos on this, a full-on tutorial, click here to watch this. This breaks down in-depth all this stuff in a very boring fashion. It's quite long. Most of you won't make it through, but the the ones who do, I mean good for you because you can you will get a bunch of mentions in AI AI search. So click here to watch this. Thank you so much for watching this one and I'll catch you on the next one. Cheers.