Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4tqCKkGilXI
File: nathan-gotch/nathan-video-2
--------------------------------------------------

Just follow this 49point onpage SEO checklist and you'll get results like this, this, and this. Let's dive right in. Okay, so if you look on the right hand side, this is going to be the onpage SEO checklist. I'm going to be walking you through, and you're going to have access to this checklist below the video. So, there'll be a link either in the description or in the pinned comments. So, let's just dive right into it. So, number one, is the URL allowed in the robots.ext file for Googlebot and Bingbot? Okay. So, all we have to do is just go to the page itself and just open up the detailed Chrome extension and then click on the robots.ext here. And you can see as long as there's nothing being blocked here by the disallow, then you're going to be good to go. Okay? But if you saw anything in here that like any any bots are being blocked, generally we don't want that to happen. Okay? And especially we don't we we don't want any of the traditional search engines to be blocked and we also don't want the AI crawlers to be blocked. So if you see anything like GPT bot or Google extended or perplexitybot, you don't want any of that in there. Okay. So this is this is the appropriate setup here. This is this is going to be a pass for them. Okay. So we can pass both of these. And then the next thing here is you want to see is the page actually indexable? Like are there any directives being used that would potentially be blocking this page? Okay. So we're going to go back over here once again detailed Chrome extension. Go over to the robots tag section. And if we see index follow, that's perfectly fine. Also, if this is completely blank, that's also okay. Okay, so we can go over here. This is passed. No worries there. And then, does the page return a 200 status? 200 just means that it's actually accessible. It's not a 404 or it's being redirected or there's some sort of server error. Uh, that's what we want to see. Okay, so we're going to go back over here, and there's a little tool you can use, and you'll see it here. Just run the URL through this little tool, and it's obviously in the checklist. and we just want to see that it's actually showing up as a 200 uh across all these different uh areas that they ran this test. Okay, so very simple. All right, so this page is pretty much good to go. Now the next one is can the page be fetched directly? And we're looking at chat GPT in this context. You could also do this across any of the LLMs as well because they do have the ability to do direct retrieval, meaning when you put a a domain or URL into chat GBT, it can actually go and retrieve that directly. Okay, so let's go ahead and grab this URL here. And we're going to go into chat GBT. And if you do the thinking model typically the one I'm going to use when I'm going to do any type of retrieval and you can just do something like you know tell me about this website or actually you know we'll do more specifically tell me about this page you can actually look through the logic of going through this. So it looks like browsing page or key details uh it actually did go through that that page and then it scrolled. So, um, so based on what we're seeing here, uh, you can actually go and verify this, too, right? If you want to make sure that it's being, you know, not making things up and it's not hallucinating, you can actually go and verify these facts in here. So, what you can do is just grab a random piece of information like this and just see if uh, hallucination has been prevented. And you can see if we search this, uh, this is actually legit, which means the only way they would have gotten this information is through uh, retrieval. Okay? So, and just keep in mind it can still hallucinate. So, just be careful. always do some factchecking. But what we're trying to do here is just make sure like the purpose of this little activity is just to see that chat GBT can actually retrieve this page. Okay, that's what we want to see. It can actually go and it's not being blocked. That's really what we want to see. All right, so we can go and give that one a pass. And then next we're going to see is this page actually indexed in the three search engines that matter the most. Google, Bing, and Brave. Now, here's why. Obviously, we want to we want to be indexed in Google because it's the number one search engine. Uh, and it's also going to directly influence Google's AI mode and it's going to be influencing Google's Google Gemini as well. Okay, so those two products, if we're not indexed in Google, we have basically no chance of showing up uh in those products. Okay, Bing, we know that we know that chat GBT uses Bing and uh so does Perplexity. So, we want to make sure that we're showing up there as well when it I'm speaking in reference to actually when it uses retrieval. And then the third one is Brave. and Brave. Uh there's some evidence that Claude uses Brave as its source of retrieval. So we just want to make sure that we're indexable across all these major search engines. That's really important. Very easy. Just go and do a site search. In fact, you don't even have to do site. You could just search the raw URL. And you just want to see that it's popping up. Okay. So in Google, we're good. When we do it in Bing, we'll go over here. They're actually indexed over here as well. And then we look at Brave. They're indexed here as well. Okay. So they're doing well. They've they've got uh they've got the proper foundation set up. Now, let's dive into some of the other stuff. Is the page HTML? Okay, so this is really important. So, we know that the LLMs prefer HTML. Okay, and if you're if your page is if your page is built in JavaScript, you're not going to you're not going to be a good source of retrieval uh for the LLM. So, just just use HTML. Okay, I'm not going to get super demon. Just use HTML. Make your life e easier. Okay, it's quite simple. If we go here and look at this view page source, we can go ahead and just see, you know, it is this actually HTML. The answer is yes. But more importantly, we want to see that the text is actually crawable uh and retrievable in this content. So, if you go past all this like crazy uh code up here, we can see we see actual meat in here, actual text that's in the HTML, we can see that H1 popping up in here. We can see that H2. And we can see these paragraph tags. Okay, that's what you want to see. You want to see that that text is actually showing up right here in the code. Okay, that's exactly what you want to see. So that's a pass. Then uh is the core content server rendered and visible in the page source? Once again, this tells you that it is being rendered. Okay, so that kind of you pass both those checks right away. Uh is a canonical URL set? Just go right back in here. We're going to go to the detail Chrome extension and just see that it is a self-referencing canonical tag. That's what you want to see, right? Self-referencing. That's exactly what you want. All right. Uh, okay. So, we're good on all of these. We They've passed everything so far. Okay. So, does the page match the dominant intent shown in the live SER for the target keyword. Okay. So, basically what we want to do is like we want to study the the SERs and we want to see are we actually matching what's in the SERs? Like we don't want to reinvent the wheel. Like there's a lot of things that you can get fancy about and get uh creative about, but one of the things you don't want to do is when it comes to intent, you want to copy the first page. Okay? Don't ever try to go against that. Uh unless you're very skilled, uh if you're very skilled at this, you can, but it's it's risky. Okay? What we want to do is look at this and see, okay, what is the general type of page that is ranking? So when we look at the types of pages that are ranking here, we see we've got lots of lawyers who all have, you know, really kind of commercial pages. Okay, these are all just commercial pages. And, you know, obviously they there's some room for improvement because technically they function more likeformational pages even though they're commercial. But the the main point is like mostly commercial pages. Uh cool thing about inside of Rankability here, if you click on view SER, this will give you an unbiased view of what the SERs look like right now. Okay? And so you can actually go down here and see what I like to do this because I can actually determine like, okay, what is a CTR going to look like? And we see we've got a big ad block here. So that's already going to hurt CTR. Then we go down here. We've got a local pack, meaning we have to focus on the local pack number one above the traditional search results. And then we've got the And then we've got the traditional search results here. Okay, but we can see it's like 99.9% commercial pages. So that tells us everything we need to know. That means we need to go and build a commercial page as well. Now, based on what we're seeing here, they've done that. Um, obviously room for improvement, but in general, they have they have matched the intent to a certain extent. Okay. All right. So, we're going to go and pass them on that. Now, does the page include elements needed to qualify for features? Now, in this case, if you look here on the competitors tab on rankability, you can see any features that exist. So, in this case, there really aren't any features. The only surf feature that we see major surf feature is is the Google business profiles the local pack here. So you know that's kind of a separate discussion alto together right but there's no like people also ask or any or there's not even actually an AI overview in this case which is pretty rare. So just one feature here and obviously as long as they have a Google business profile and they have an address in Chicago and they're actively require uh acquiring reviews that's like 80 to 90% of the equation. Okay. Does the page display a visible publish date and clearly labeled uh last update? And is the content current reflected any changes? So, this is really important here, which is the LLMs tend to prefer fresh pages that have been updated very recently. So, this is it's important to constantly be refreshing your pages and making them up to date as much as possible. Now, because this is a commercial page, it's not likely to see like a publish date or last updated. So, what you can do is actually go into the code and try to find the uh various years that pop up in here. So, what I'll do is I'll just do like 20 and then I'll try to find anything that's going to give us signals of how old this page really is. Now, when we see this right away, we see we found 2016. Okay, that's not a good sign. All right, because what that's telling us already is that this page is very old. This page has not been updated very often. Uh we've got 2023 in here. We keep going down and more 2020 in here. So, we have we have we have elements on this page that are go as far back as 2016. Okay, that's really old. All right, so that's going to be a big fail here. Now, for commercial pages, this is typically what you're going to have to do because you're not going to be able to see uh usually like a last update or or publish it. Even then, even on anformational page, you still want to go through that same practice because you want to see like is are there outdated elements on this page and we don't want to have that. We need to make sure that it's extremely upto-date if we want to have good performance. Okay, now we're just talking about readability, which is like having a TLDDR or scannability, which is really important for LLMs because they go and uh extract through retrieval. They're pulling elements and chunks from the page. So, you want to make sure it's really really clear what you guys do at like right above the fold. Um, and the just the general structure of this page, there's a lot of room for improvement. Okay, so I'm just going to go through a couple of things here just because I I can't help myself. So, couple of things here. Number one, this section up here is very problematic because number one, when you use this blue here, this is the universal sign of a link and the universal color of a link on the internet. Okay? So, when you do when you use this color here for text, it looks like a link. Okay? And this here actually is a link. So, we have text that looks like a link that isn't a link. And then we have an actual link that's using the right color. So, there's just some color issues here. And then this one here is using actually a different color for this link. So you you want links to look like links, but you want to make sure that the general theme and and color scheme isn't going to compete with those links. Okay? So right now, this is not the appropriate setup. In fact, I'd be moving away from blue headings like this and I would move to like, you know, maybe a darker blue or even just black. Okay? That's just much easier. And let and let links be links. Uh, as far as that blue color, another thing is too, the the phone number is one of the most important things on this page, yet it's very muted, okay? It's a very muted color. So, we want to make that I want to make that phone number be the star of the show because it's critical that we get people actually call us to to actually drive conversions. Okay? Uh, so that's really important. And then right here, you know, the general structure here like uh UX 101 is that the primary headline is above the fold. Okay? So, there should be at any page that you're on on a website, the the headline should be one of the first things that you see because it helps the user understand where they are uh in that moment. Okay? But right now, if we were to just kind of like move this up, if someone landed on this page, they'd have no idea where they are. They don't know what this page is. They don't know, you know, there's a happy truck driver here, but we don't really know what this page is about, right? If you're just on this alone with no context. So, you have to shift this around. And what I would do is I would use just like a left right format. So you'd have headline on the left, uh, sub headline, call to action, then maybe a form over here too, and then like maybe some testimonials. Like you could restructure this page quite easily. Okay. And right now it this page is not really built for for maximum conversions. So this is this is much bigger than just an SEO content and an on-page SEO issue. There's there's like full-on structural issues going on here with this page. Um, if you want some like a good in inspo, I would use Look at these guys here. Okay, I've I've talked about them before. Uh, this is not my client or anything. I just think that one of my favorite websites I've seen on the local level. It's beautiful. Does so many things well and um just just model this, okay? Because you got a beautiful phone number above the fold, very prominent. You've got another CTA here for people that are not ready to call. And then you see the CTAs throughout, right? the calls to action. We got a nice beautiful format like I said left right format. So we got a nice left left here with the context and then we've got the call to action. So and then obviously we've got some social proof. It's just overall this is you it doesn't get much better than this. This is about as good as it gets. Okay. So model this. This is what a beautiful conversion focused design will look like. And you can still get maximum SEO benefits uh by do in fact you'll get more SEO benefits by doing this because you're going to get the goal completions that are are supposed to happen on your page which is likely also a Google ranking factor. Okay. So I would go ahead and give this one a fail on that. Uh if applicable does a page include a short verdict box? The answer is no. This is like very textheavy. uh most people are never going to read this and this is really just an attempt to manipulate Google but not necessarily uh drive conversions which that should be the number one objective. The number one objective should not be how do we manipulate Google to rank and how do I manipulate the uh AI platforms. The goal should be how do we drive maximum goal completions on this page considering this is a transactional page. That's the number one objective. Then the SEO is second to that. Okay. So we're going to give that a fail. Uh, does a page provide information gain compared to the top results? Probably not. Okay, we can we don't have to do much analysis there. Okay. Is the word count sufficient to satisfy search intent without necess unnecessary padding? I'm going to go ahead and say no, but just because we'll go ahead and take you get some quantifiable proof here. We can see uh we we actually placed all the content here. So if you do a uh content optimizer here, you can actually extract even if and if you don't, you can actually go over here to URL extraction and then it will in will go ahead and retrieve that information, bring it back uh into this editor. But right here in the word count, word count is not a ranking factor per se. Um but we we want to be within range as to where the competitors are, but we don't want to be super aggressive there. And so in the context is we're using median word count. So we're eliminating the outliers. So like some some competitor has, you know, I don't know, 10,000 words and some competitors got 50. We're just eliminating them all together and bringing to that true middle. So this optimal range is like you want to be in here. In fact, I would argue you'd want to be more on the low end because if you're on the low end, you're going to practice brevity. You're going to focus on conversions. Um, and you're not going to just fluff up your content, which is not beneficial really. So, we're looking at 4,300 words. If I was working on this page, I'd delete nearly 3,000 of the words on this page. Like, I would literally just just chop away at it. And I'll show you how we can restructure this page. But, in general, this target word count is critical because, you know, it word count's a tricky thing because just having words is not a ranking factor, but you need words to have context, right? like the uh search engine crawlers and LLMs, they need meat. They need actual words to understand what the page is about. So, in that way, you could argue that it is a factor. Uh but it's not like a specific word count is a fact. It's not like the LM say, oh, this page has 1500 words, therefore it's going to rank better. That's not what it that's not what it is. It's more that, oh, this page has something that I can understand, and then I know what I can do with this, right? And that's really what it is. It's it's it's the substance. It's not the quantity. Okay. All right. So, we're going to go and uh that one's going to be a fail. And then uh you know, basic grammar and spelling. Actually kind of cool. Most people don't know like some of the functions in here, but you can actually go in here and click on AI. And what this will do is if you just click on spelling and grammar, this will just do a full spelling and grammar analysis uh with with our AI. Um, so there's like some little features in here that I don't really talk about, but this is a quick way you can do this. Is it means you don't even need Grammarly to be honest. I canceled Grammarly like a year and a half ago. So, uh, all right. So, is the are the headings, uh, hierarchy logical with short paragraphs, list tables. Okay. So, going back to here, we can see, uh, there there's a bunch of grammatical errors and opportunities to improve uh, this overall. So, if you just do accept and replace, it will actually just clean all of this up automatically for you. Okay. Okay. So, if you want to do a quick analysis of the headings, just go over to the brief here and then click on outline. And you can see the heading structure all set up here. So, this is actual headings pulled from that page. And we can see this is this is not exactly what we want. Uh we want to make sure that we've got like, you know, a solid H1, which is good. This is perfect. Got a good H1. Then we would have an H2, but then within that H2, we would start to layer in, you know, H3s. Um, so this is just a little H2 heavy. We don't want it to be like this. So like if you look at this competitor here, they've got a nice setup. They got H1, H2, then they've got the H3s within that H2 and so on and so forth. This is a good setup. This is uh a little too H2 heavy. Okay, moving on to loading speed. Just run the page through Google Page Speed Insights and you can see check on mobile and check on desktop. So they're about a 57 on mobile and they're 98 on desktop. Knowing that most of their traffic is likely mobile, then this is a problem. Okay. Um, for B2B, desktop tends to be the much more prevalent, but for, you know, BTOC type of situation like this, you're going to see a lot more mobile traffic. So, this is definitely something we're going to want to fix. Okay. Uh, is it mobile friendly? All right. There's a very simple thing you could do here. If you want to check to see mobile friendliness, just go ahead and like open up the URL like this and just condense this down. And this will give you a pretty rough idea of what it's going to look like on mobile. Okay? It's not perfect, but it gives you a pretty good idea. The the only true way to do this is just literally pick up your phone and and look on your actual device. Okay, that's the best way to really do it. All right, but this one looks good on that front. Pass. And then is the reading level appropriate for the target audience in general online? Like any internet level content should be very simple, like very very simple content, easy to understand, easy to read. And what we'll see here if we go over here to the readability, uh this is a college level content even up to college graduate. This is way too way too intense. And so this is one of the biggest issues I see with lawyers. They always have really really technical content and but their clients are not highly technical in the legal space. So you have to convert this to something they can actually understand. Okay, this is not what we want. We want it to be much lower high school, elementary, like as low as we can go. Uh first grade level, you know, try to go to that level. that's going to make a big difference uh as far as conversion rates on the internet. Okay, now we're talking about some basic onpage SEO 101 which is really just about keyword placement and then of course uh overall topic coverage. So what you can do is go to the brief here and you can actually click on this and we actually have it built in here. So you can see uh the primary keyword you want to see that primary keyword is actually popping up in the URL. So this did not pass. So this is going to be a fail. And when I say primary keyword I mean Chicago truck accident lawyer. So, we don't see Chicago in here at all. And my my test for this is what I do is like I pretend there is no context. So, just looking at this page, we see practice area truck accidents. I don't know where that is, right? I don't know if that's Chicago. I don't know if that's Florida. You know, it there's no context. So, you need to have the city to give context. That's just my personal opinion. All right. This one here is about title tag. They passed that. They're good to go. Uh we'll look at the metad description. Metad description looks good. Uh, actually, sorry, pass that one. Pass that. Uh, there is a keyword in the H1. Yes, we know that. Is the keyword in the first 100 words? Uh, we can go ahead and look in here. Yeah, I mean, I would say that I'll give that one a pass. That that's fair. Um, variation in the H2. Uh, yeah. Yeah, we go to give that one a pass. Descriptive headings overall. Okay. I'm not going to be too gruff on that. And then this one, although it is the last point, is the most important point in this section, which is does it cover all the relevant topics. Okay, so go over here. You look at relevance, but we're actually going to go to unused, and we're going to see we've got tons of unused topics that the competitors are using. Okay, so I would argue that this page needs to be completely redone. Like, and so, you know, we passed all those things, but the reality is if this was my client, this page I would just start from scratch. Okay? And the way I would do it is pretty simple. I would just start with AI as the base using AI to build that base content and then use the human editorial process to make it better. Okay? So go into here, you use the AI writer inside of rankability if you wanted to. Uh and what I do in this section is obviously pick service page because it's a commercial page. And then what I'll do is I'll use chat GBT to go and give me context. Okay? So right here you can see you can use this little prompt but basically we can go and retrieve that information. It will go and give us context about that brand. And then this is how we can make that AI content uh a lot more unique relative to the people that are ranking because a commercial page is really easy to actually make unique because it should be about your brand and there is only you. So it's automatically unique out of the gate. So what you can do though is like I'll have it turn into a markdown file and then we'll just copy this over. We'll put this into the context window and then I will generate that content. And then in the last section under goal completions, this is really really important. So what I recommend doing is just making sure that all of their calls to action actually work. Okay? And I already said that you like this page I I would personally this should be redesigned in my opinion, but let's just say they were to keep this. I want to make sure that the phone number is actually clickable. So like if I click on this, will it actually call? The answer is yes. Okay, so it actually does work. But then we want to do is actually want to test this form. So you can use a service like Mailinator. Just do this real quickly. and I want to see if this form actually works because if it doesn't work then that's going to cause a lot of problems. All right, so we're gonna run this through use mailinator and I apologize uh to this brand that I'm doing this but just for the sake of for the argument here it seems to have worked. I would go ahead and say that uh this is a solid pass. However, I would argue that this is an area this is where now we're starting to step outside of the SEO realm here. But as far as conversion rate optimization, as far as building trust leading up to a call, all of those things, what you want to do is build in a proper funnel. So what we're seeing here is like, okay, you contact them. What happens next? Okay, going to get in touch with you shortly. Okay, so it just kind of leaves the user up, you know, you don't really know what's going to happen after this. Am I get are they going to get in touch with me? I'm not sure. Right? So if you're trying to win deals, you want to be the one that's controlling that sales environment. So, what I would do personally is soon as someone submits this form, I'd send them to a thank you page. On the thank you page, it would be a video of one of the lawyers, and I would say, "Hey, thank you so much for uh, you know, submitting your free case review. Here's what's going to happen next. Uh, here's what you can expect." And you you set those expectations for them, right? And then even maybe give them some additional resources that they can use. Even maybe show some uh some social proof, some case studies, or even uh outcomes that you've gotten for your clients. So you're building trust like right there. So now they feel like, okay, I understand the process. I'm good to go. Uh but this is like basically, you know, and this happens a lot with with legal based websites. Uh actually happens a lot with basically every local business I've seen. Um but we need to actually continue that process because you you don't just want to have this form submission then nothing happens after. You want to continue to build that trust and get get that prospect to know, like, and trust you. This deal has not been closed, right? you got to you have to continually sell to to close that deal. And then also when we go into the inbox, we see that there is actually no confirmation email that has even come through from that contact submission. So once again, we've got two things that have to happen. Number one is when someone submits a form, they go to a thank you page, they they know what's coming next. Number two, they get an email confirmation about that contact submission. Okay, so very basic stuff. I'm not talking about like complex funnels here, which we could talk about, but I'm just saying that's like just the basic that every business should be doing in the context of uh anyone that has a lead generation focused business. So, we can see that the AI content is already done. We'll go ahead and click through. So, this is going to be very good to show the distinct difference between this draft versus the other one. On the right hand side here, they they're missing a lot of kind of core topics in here. Okay, a lot of those really important topics. With this draft, we can see we've covered basically all the important topics. Okay? That's why it's scored so well because it's covering what it needs to cover, right? But also, as I mentioned earlier, when you can see like the the really juiced up word count. So, you can see here only about 1,400 words. Okay? So, we've chopped that word count down dramatically. Um, and it it's already in a much better place. Now, I would say that the readability is still a little it's a little strong. It's a little strong. So the AI went a little went a little too college graduate in this case. So I would this is where the human edits come in. I would start to kind of simplify this a little bit more. This is where you need a human. Okay. But this in general, this is what you want to see. You want to have it be lean and highly relevant and personalized and also obviously have that good readability. So this is what this is what a good draft looks like. Now I've said this a million times at this point. This is a draft. This is just the first draft. Uh for us, you know, like I said, this took, you know, less than five minutes to make this draft. We'll then spend an hour, maybe up to two hours, uh with a human going through reworking this, make sure it's going to flow well on that commercial page and all of that stuff. Okay? So, this is like all that time that you save from the writing, reinvest it into the back end of that content production process or that editorial process. And that's going to ensure that your content does much better uh and you're and you're you're practicing proper on-page SEO. Okay. And the last point of today, I just want to make sure that it's clear that when it comes to on-page SEO, it is only one sliver of the total equation as far as performance in Google and ChatGBT and LLM. Okay. What what really matters like and this this is unfortunately people think that like if they just focus on site, they're going to get good results. And unless you're in a really uncompetitive industry, it's not going to be the case. you still need to carve out all of these other elements. So, I'll have a video uh that you can watch next that's going to show you how to do chat GBT SEO specifically. Uh and there'll be other videos on my channel also about how to how to optimize for Google as well. But you'll see that like there's much more to this equation in particular uh offsite, okay? And you can see your backlink profile and your third party. And by the way, this chart is just my personal opinion of like impact of these these particular categories, but 50% in my opinion at least, I'm being maybe a little uh conservative here, is what's happening off of your website. That's where most of the impact is going to come from is what's happening off of your website, not what you're doing on your site. Uh that's only equates you maybe 50% of the total equation. So, just wanted to show you this to make sure we're, you know, we're being realistic that even if you follow this checklist and there's a lot of content stuff on there as well, we're only looking about, you know, maybe 25% a quarter of the equation. So, make sure you're covering all of these different areas if you want to maximize your AI search uh and SEO performance.