Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fh_54G6p_cs
File: nathan-gotch/nathan-video-1
--------------------------------------------------

If you want better SEO results and better AI search visibility, you've got to know how to do keyword research like a pro. And in this video, I'm going to show you four keyword research techniques that'll unlock so many opportunities you probably won't need to run a full keyword research process again for the next 6 to 12 months. My name is Nathan Gotch and I've been doing SEO since 2013 and I've led hundreds of successful SEO and AI search campaigns. So, let's walk through my keyword research process from start to finish. So, this is the exact template that we use on every SEO campaign. And this is one we've been we've built many many years ago and we've continually just refined and improved over time. And so, it might look a little overwhelming at first, but I can assure you once you understand how this template works, it's it's really something you're going to want to swipe, something you're want to take a lot of these these elements. So, let me walk you through this real quickly. So, a couple key things here is this is really built for an agency situation. You know, an agency that's working with a client, but you could use this for your own campaign. You would just be the client. Okay, so let's say rankability was the client. All right, that was how it would work. So, that is really kind of the container. Now, a couple key things here. Uh, priority is very important, which is just measuring, you know, what is going to be the priority of these keywords. And I'll show you in step three how to actually prioritize your keywords. Okay, source is important. Where did you actually find that keyword? So, I'm going to be walking through many different techniques where you can find keywords here in a second. Cluster is also critical. You want to put every single keyword that you find into a bucket. You want to have it in its appropriate cluster because what that allows you to do is see, okay, where do we have a lot of focus right now or where do we have big gaps? Okay, you can at a very high level. You can see that right away when you start to fill this in. obviously the keyword or topic that you're going to go after. SER features is very very important to put in here as well because this will ultimately help you estimate what the organic CTR is going to be. Okay. But not only that, as I'll show you here very soon, you can also look at the SERs as a a way to determine what your strategy should be as far as attacking different elements in those SERs. Okay. So then we have search volume with goes without saying. We have KD, which is just measuring how many links a particular page has uh in the top 10. And that's very important because it ultimately determine what our link budget is going to have to be. Cost per click, this one always confuses a lot of people, but this is actually very important for keyword selection. So, uh cost per click doesn't matter for SEO per se, but it matters for determining keyword value. So if you see that a lot of advertisers are, you know, advertising for a particular keyword, that means it's likely very valuable. Okay? So that's why this is important. So when we get through the filtering process, you're want to filter keywords that do have higher CPC value because it means more than likely they're they're more valuable than those that do not. Okay. Current position. This is where you currently rank for this particular keyword. Okay? So there's kind of two different keyword research approaches you want to have. You have the one where you're uh extracting your existing keywords from the keywords you're already ranking for in the top 100 and then another part of the keyword research process is just identifying completely new keywords those that your website does not currently rank for. Okay, so those are kind of the two different uh routes that you can take. Okay, your current URL. This is simply what URL is actually ranking for this keyword in the top 100. Next thing which is absolutely critical is intent. Okay, so I've I have some rejects in here that automatically filters this through, but basically what happens as soon as you put a keyword in, it will automatically categorize it asformational or commercial intent. Now, we've kept these categories intentionally broad. There's obviously many different subsets of search intent, but just to keep it simple, we focus on that. Okay? So, if you can just break it down into informational, commercial, you're going to be in pretty good shape. Okay? And then the opportunity. So this is just our own personal categorization, but basically the way we look at it is any keyword that's ranking between positions 2 and 15 is what we define as a lowhanging fruit. Okay? Then aside from that, if it's from 16 to 50, we just we just label that as an existing keyword. Still very important, but just goes into that existing bucket. Then any keywords beyond position 50 is what we call a clustering opportunity. Now, not every keyword in that range will qualify as a clustering opportunity, but the reason why we say that is because a lot of keywords that are underperforming, you will often find that the page that's currently ranking, let's say it's ranking number 72, that page is either not relevant enough, not good enough, or some other reason why it's not ranking. So, we really want to isolate that group of keywords and say, okay, why why is this page not performing very well for this particular keyword? Now, you could technically have a perfect page for that keyword, but it may be lacking internal link coverage. It may be lacking uh proper topic coverage around that core topic. It could be lacking back links. Okay? So, there's other variables, other reasons why a a page could be underperforming, but we do find a lot of the time that there's sometimes an intent mismatch. Okay? So, that's why identifying that clustering opportunity, which is any keywords beyond position 50, okay, those are what you would identify. Okay. So, you do that. That gets automatically categorized. And then we'll keep going through here. We'll skip through some of this. And then the right side of this part is the prioritization, which we'll be getting into more. But basically, the way this template works is it automatically does all of this. Okay? So, it's got a, you know, all these formulas in here. And as soon as a keyword gets put in there, this has its own kind of uh automatic scoring mechanism so that you can get a an end score here, a point total. So then you know like okay based on all these variables that we have these are likely some of the you know this group of keywords is the best ones to go after based on uh our current position of our website and the strength of our website and then also just generally the the quantifiable metrics that we'll use for that particular keyword. Okay. So this is critical. Okay. There is you cannot do keyword research without having a good template. So you have to have a template. You can take a lot of what I've showed you here and kind of build your own if you want. totally doable. Um, or I just have these in search OS. Okay, so I I put all my templates in search OS. Uh, and you can see here, you know, you just open this up and this is on version 2.1. Um, and you can just go ahead and use these templates and keep getting access to them as we update them. All right, so now that you know that you need to have a proper keyword research template, the next step is to actually go out there and find keywords. The first technique is to just use Google search data. So, if you go into Google Ads and you go to the keyword planner, you're going to see directly from the source as far as search volume. Okay? So, you click on get search volume and forecast. And we'll just do a simple example for let's say SEO to keep it really simple. And we'll run this through and then we're able to see uh the exact search volume and even the trend data related to that particular keyword. Okay. Now, obviously, you're going to want to expand this much more, but just to put a seed in there. Now, you can go to keyword ideas and we can expand that keyword set a lot more. Okay, so I do SEO, you know, we'll add that in there. We'll do SEO services. We'll do AEO services. We'll do AI search optimization and so on and so forth. You just keep adding these seeds related to whatever you're going after. Okay? Then we do get results. And then we're going to be able to see a decent amount of keywords. Okay? And so this is really good for just kind of like that highlevel analysis uh as far as the Google as far as Google ads go, as far as Google search data goes. Um but it it it's missing a lot. Okay. So it's going to give you demand data as far as volume and trending, but it's not going to give you a whole lot after that. Okay. Now, just to add some clarifications on this, this competition column, this is not SEO competition. This is purely competition if you're running Google ads. Okay. So, just want to make that clarification there. This is do not use that as competition for organic. That's purely for ads. But like I said, this is still really really powerful just for, you know, getting a quick look into keyword data. And obviously, you don't have to invest in any tools. You just come in here and you you have Google Ads uh give you that data. Okay, so that's the first technique. The second technique is another Google product is Google Search Console. Once again, it's free to use. you sign up, you can get your query data. Uh, and you can get a lot of great insights by doing this. Okay, it's not it's missing a lot once again because like we look at this and we see, okay, well, we look at these keywords and we can see kind of four metrics. We can see clicks, impressions, CTR, and position. Okay, that's all great, but once again, it's missing some critical some critical competition data. Okay, you see this data, you're like, "Okay, this is cool. It's got a lot of demand, but it doesn't tell the whole story of who you're up up against for those keywords, and that's absolutely critical. Okay, but this is good once again for a highle overview. It's it has tons of useful data. So, very quickly, you can use Google Ads and also Google Search Console uh to to really you could technically build a whole keyword strategy doing that. Okay? Uh it's not going to be comprehensive, but it it can get you in in a good place. Let's just say that. Okay. The next technique you can use, you can actually go directly into Google itself. Okay, so we're going to go into Google and let's just search something like SEO. We'll keep it on the SEO topic. All right, so we're going to go down here. We search SEO and there's a couple ways you can actually do this on Google. So you can actually go into here and just start doing suggested um keywords. Okay, so you just keep running different queries like this and you can start seeing the different keywords that are popping up. These are all suggested options. These are all keywords that you could technically pursue. Okay, another thing you could do is you come down here and go to people also ask. Okay, you could technically just copy all of these, pop them into your uh keyword database, and you'll be good to go. Just make sure you label them as people also ask. Okay, and each time you expand these, just keep doing this over and over. And there's plenty of extensions that do this, but just manually, you can do this and you can copy them just like this and pop them into your keyword template. Okay, another thing is for some queries you will see this things to know but usually only for queries that have a lot of search demand you'll see this but still some useful stuff you could pull from here right still you know kind of blends a little bit you know with people also ask but you might find some unique ideas in there as well so the all of these ideas that you find are what are going to be defined as zero volume keywords that does not mean that they're bad keywords it just means they don't have quantifiable demand and that is not a problem because most keywords are completely unknown to SEO tools, right? Even Google itself doesn't know about the large majority of keywords that even exist. And this is only getting more complicated over time because the length of a query keeps expanding because of AI platforms. Very much more conversational queries. Okay, so the length of a query is expanding which means there's much more complexity in these queries. So then you can do the same exact thing on Replet. You just go into Replet and you can search something like SEO and you can either start to look at some of these existing topics here and start to add these to your database or you can actually go into the the subreddit itself and start to see what are the topics that are be talked about a lot because a lot of these topics that pop up in these subreddits don't typically have search volume and any any volume that they may get is always going to be lagging in the future. So the advantage here is that you're going to find these ideas that people are talking about right now. You're going to jump on these topics. You're going to be able to get some early momentum on these topics and that can give you huge advantage over your competitors. Now on YouTube, we can do the same exact thing. We go to SEO and we can do once again suggested searches and see. Okay. Honestly, most of these are going to be very similar to Google. So you're not going to find m anything very different by doing this. But it's actually much better just to go into the actual channels that exist. Okay. So, we can look at any of these channels here. We'll go into my buddy here, Matt Diggity. And what I would do is I would go to his videos and I would go by, well, first, you know, you can do by popular, but I' i'd be careful by doing popular because YouTube changes so much. So, like, for example, if you did this exact topic that he did here that was from 5 years ago, has insane amount of views, you're not going to get the same amount of views on your video by targeting this topic. Okay? Even this one here about chat GBT which both he and I attacked this you know this topic as soon as ChatGBT came out. You're not going to get the same amount of views because there's the the uh platform has been flooded by content that's all about that topic now. So you have to be a first mover on these topics. So a better thing to do is go to latest and then look at the latest topics that have driven the most views. And then the last technique I'll show you for finding keywords is just to use a tool like Rankability. So this is what I personally use. So all these things that I just showed you today, this streamlines all that into one simple operation. So within, you know, 3 to 5 minutes, you'll have done everything I just showed you and you can be completely done. That's and that's so to me, you know, better use of time. That's why I use it. Uh but I'll just show you real quickly what this looks like. So this is for St. Louis SEO consultant. So we'll go ahead and just run, you know, things like that are very similar to what we do. St. Louis SEO agency. St. uh let's see here. St. Louis SEO consultant and then we can say you know St. we'll do St. Louis um uh we'll do St. Louis AI search optimization services and then we'll do St. Louis AEO services. Okay, so those are just seeds by the way. You just enter some seeds. They don't have to be exact to what you know what you think it is. Don't try to you don't have to figure it all out. But the more specific you are, the better. Okay. So then what you can do here is you can do by all sources, which means it's going to go and and look at all the different sources that we talked about here plus more, which I'll show you in a second. But if you wanted to, if you want to kind of uh get the the tool to get more focused on a particular group, you could do trending, you could do Reddit, YouTube, and even e-commerce. Okay? So actually we'll extract topic ideas from Amazon, Walmart, and eBay. Okay? So this just there's different routes you can take but for this for the sake of this example I'm just going to go uh with with all sources. Okay. Now this is where things go to the next level. You can integrate your knowledge base. Okay. So we'll go over here to advise and you'll see in the advise section you can integrate uh a couple things. Number one is you can integrate your knowledgebased artifacts and you can integrate data into this advisor. Now I'll show you in the context of rankability because I have way more knowledge knowledge base artifacts in here. But you can see here these are all the different knowledgebased artifacts and these are directly from the website. Okay. So what it will do is when you do that keyword research, it's actually going to go to that content and extract firstparty topic ideas from that content. Okay. So, whatever you put in into your knowledge base, this tool will use it to to generate content ideas that your competitors are absolutely ignoring, nor would even have access to. Okay, that's how valuable this is going to be. So, you go ahead and click that on. And then also Google Search Console. This is incredibly powerful. So, I just showed you how you could do that yourself, but this is a little more powerful because you when you click this on instead of going into Google Search Console like this and you've got like, okay, where do I start? I've got all this data. I've got 14 million impressions I got to dig through. Like, where do I even begin? Well, you could certainly mess around with filters and it's it's decent. Or you could just use this tool, which makes it way easier because what happens is when you put these seeds in, uh, it goes through and Google and and, uh, Rankability will automatically filter and only give you the keywords that are directly related to these seeds that you entered. So, you have to waste all your time filtering through all the keywords to try to find relevance. Okay. So once that's all good, you just go ahead and click start keyword research. Okay, so that typically takes about three to five minutes to complete. And you'll see why because it's quite intense. So I want to show you a couple of things. First, when you when you get your initial report here, it's it it's simple by design, but it's really when you start to go into the filters where you really start to see some good stuff. Okay, so couple key things to look at here. Number one is obviously look at the relevance of the topics. As I mentioned that we're really, really focused on relevance. Okay, that is the key. We want to try to get the most relevant topics imaginable. But then we also have the source. Okay, and I'll show you all the different sources that this pulls from. But we can see we got Google, Google Search Console, and I'll show you the other ones. We've got automatic clustering. So, you can certainly go and do this yourself. You can even use chat GPT to help you with clustering, but this also just does it automatically. And then we've got all the standard data I talked about earlier. Okay. Now, let's open up the filters. I'll show you a couple of things. First, um you can sort this obviously if you want to really quickly, but we can also look by cluster. Okay, we can sort it by cluster and then we can also sort it by sources. So, like I mentioned, first we can look at just pure Google search data. Okay, so this is the pure Google search data that uh is coming directly from Google. This is coming directly from Google. Okay, then we go over here. We go to AI. Now, we're doing this by doing a lot of advanced stuff on the back end, but you can see a lot of these topics are really, really unique. Okay, they're not all going to be great because obviously it's AI, but it gives you some kind of unique angles that you probably wouldn't have even thought of. We also pull from Reddit as I showed you earlier. So, instead of having to dig through Reddit, this does it automatically. We also have YouTube. Instead of having to dig through YouTube, you can just go ahead and see the ideas right here. You can see we pulled some ideas from the knowledge base. This particular client did only had one page in the knowledge base, but the more comprehensive your knowledge base is, the more ideas that this will generate. Okay? and then trending topics, okay? Going and finding unique ideas related to these core topics. And then of course the big one which is Google Search Console. And as you can see, there's tons of ideas in Google Search Console that you can go after. All right, so this is a way to really streamline your keyword research efforts. And ultimately, the goal here is to do keyword research once and not have to worry about it. And this brings me to step number three, which is actually prioritizing your keywords. So now you know how to find keywords. It showed you a bunch of different tools you can use, but now what do you actually do to determine what keywords to go after and in what order. Okay, so now what you're looking at is data that I extracted directly from Rankability and then just put it into our template. Now, we don't necessarily always use this template. Usually just will control it all within Rankability. But if you're, you know, using any type of keyword research technique, this is a good place to kind of put all of your topics in here. And so you put this in. And a couple things can happen when you create a template like this. Number one is automatic categorization of intent. Once again, this is done in rankability, but if you want to do you kind of have a more manual route, you can do that. We can also see categorization by opportunity. Okay, so we got the low hanging fruits and then we've got the other opportunities uh that also exist in here. So like I mentioned earlier, clustering opportunities, we can see these and these are keywords that are just not performing well. Okay, so a good example of this is looking through some of these and saying like are there any keywords here that maybe we should create a dedicated page for? Okay. So, an example would be like St. Louis digital marketing. This is a good one because you don't have any page on this website about digital marketing services. So, this would be a good one to splinter and build a dedicated page for. And so, you get the idea, right? And these are not ranking well. So, that's a clustering. Then, we go over here and we can start to see how this data will start to uh kind of come together and this will help you ultimately determine what keywords you want to go after. Okay. So, when you look at this, as I mentioned, not all the data is in here. You got to go and find target word count. you need to find lowest DR. These are kind of manual. You have to go through and do these. Okay. Uh and then also relevance. You you can pull that relevant score directly from rankability. But in general here, um you can see how this starts to come together even with not hitting all the metrics. You can see we can even just start to sort this and we'll see what keywords are getting good scores. Okay. So, we look over St. Louis SEO company is getting a good score because we're ranking well for it. It has high CPC uh and that means it's a good target. Okay. And all of these make a lot of sense. Okay. The reason why it's missing on some elements is the relevance. But we can see even AI SEO agency. This is a great keyword. We're not ranking well for it, but it's incredibly valuable. Okay. And in the in the context of St. Louis, we'd want to rank for best AI SEO agency in St. Louis. Okay. We wouldn't care about going national for that. We want to stay in whatever the target market is. So, this is the process you can go through to start to filter through these keywords. Now, the way that I've been doing it recently is I just do this all inside of Rankability. So, I find a keyword in here like this and I say, "Okay, that looks like a good keyword." So, then I'll go over here to St. Louis SEO services. Let's say I'll mark a few of these that I want. St. Louis SEO consultant, St. Louis AEO, and then let's try to find maybe one more good one here. Uh, we'll just add these. Okay, so we'll add these to our main list. And then this is where the magic happens. So you can do this uh two different ways. Okay, the first way is you can click into a particular keyword. This is where you start to go to the next level. But you can also do this manually, right? You take this keyword, go in here to incognito window and just start analyzing uh what's showing up. Now when I'm doing an analysis for a particular keyword, I'm looking at what's showing up in the SERs. Who am I competing against? So a couple key things I'm looking at here. Number one is uh what are the SER features that are popping up? Well, we got a local pack. Okay, so yes, traditional search result above the local pack, but that's extremely rare. Usually a local pack is above the fold uh is usually the first SER feature. But what that tells us is we want to occupy two different spots here. We want to rank, we want to rank in the traditional, but we also want to rank in the Google business profiles in the local pack. Okay, so now we've occupied two spots on the first page. That's critical. But then we go down here and we see, is there anything else here that uh we we need to be thinking about? Number one is Yelp is here. Okay, so we go and look at Yelp and we see like are we actually showing up in this listing? Because this is critical for uh AI search optimization, right? You can do well in Google, but if you're not showing up in these directories, you're probably not going to do really well in chat GBT or Perplexia or the other non- Googlele AI platforms. So, I would look at this and say, "Okay, it looks like we probably have a gap here. We probably need to go and build a profile here." Okay. And then so on and so forth. I'm looking through there's another one. clutch. Another great example. Uh are we showing up here? If the answer is no, we go build a profile here. We start working to build our profile here and that becomes an important part of our work. Okay, so this is what we're looking for. So all of those things that I talked about today as far as uh the value of a keyword and uh the competition and the organic CTR potential like that's all combined into this one uh KO score that we call it. Okay. Now competition, this is what makes this very unique. you if you've used any tools in the past, you've probably seen competition as KD or some sort of other metric. Those metrics are fine, but the the biggest problem with those metrics is they're only measuring how many links you need on the page level. And what this is measuring is it's looking at the competitor's overall domain strength and then also looking at how many links you're going to need on the page level. You need both of those combined together to truly know how competitive a particular SER is. Okay? So you can use this to ultimately guide you in your keyword selection process. Okay. And then uh we there's some automatic AI analysis on every keyword here. And then in the SERs like all that SER analysis we just did uh you can do it live here. Right? So we've got we can see Google business profiles. We can see the traditional search results. And this is just kind of a geeky thing, but you can see even uh how keywordrich the Google businesses are, the Google business profiles, and also how keyword rich the rankings are, right? Highlighting each individual keyword uh of that query. So you can see kind of, you know, what you're up against, right? It's very important. And then we can also see the position history over time, uh how this changes. But go back over here and a couple kind of key elements is we're going to continue to add to this. But if you look on YouTube, you can actually see who's popping up for this query on YouTube as well. So when I look at this, if I really wanted to go hard on, you know, St. Louis SEO consultant, like I have a video here that's ranking at the top that's 11 years old. So I could easily dominate YouTube for this keyword, right? Like it would be like no work at all. And then we see all the stuff that's popping up is all old videos that are, you know, no offense, outdated, uh, and should be easy to beat. Okay? So, you want to be thinking about this search everywhere optimization strategy. Don't just think about Google. Think about traditional search, local pack, YouTube, and of course, AI mode, which matters a lot, right? We want to see just because we're doing well in traditional does not necessarily guarantee that we're going to do well in AI mode. Okay? and that we've seen this time and time again. Okay, you can even see here uh that you know St. Louis SEO consultant which is ranking incredibly well in traditional isn't even being used as a citation source or a source of retrieval here. Okay, so once again proving that just doing good SEO does not necessarily translate really well into into AI mode. And I'll just show you an example. St. Louis SEO consultant ranks really really well. Okay, so we'll go to like local, you know, it's got a we built a Google business profile just kind of prove our point of how powerful having keyword rich business names is and like it's number seven. It has no reviews and it's a service area business. It it just has no business being here, no pun intended, but it's because that keyword rich nature, right? It's really really powerful. Um, and then we go down here. You can see how it's doing well in the in the grids. And then we go up here though and we look at the traditional search. You see this this particular keyword-rich domain. It ranks basically on every search engine, right? It crushes across all the search engines. But we go to AI answers and it's doing okay, right? It's got perplexity. It's got grock, but it's missing a lot, right? Doesn't have chat GBT, AI overviews, Gemini, AI mode, like it's missing a ton of places. Um, and you know, obviously that's not ideal, right? Okay. And but the reason I'm showing you that is because just doing well there, you know, doing well even in citation, doing well in traditional search doesn't necessarily guarantee performance in the actual AI answer. Okay? And that's a topic for a different time. But for now, that is how I go about doing keyword research these days. And you can, like I mentioned, there's so many tools out there you can use. There's so many different ways to find keywords. But the way that I've just been able to make my life a lot easier is just to use rankability because it gets the keyword research process done in a couple of minutes and then I can spend my time on what actually matters. Go to my list and I can really dig into these keywords and get a really good understanding um of what I'm up against, right? Because at the end of the day, it's not about being able to find keywords. That that's actually the easy part. The hard part is knowing uh what keywords to pick because if you pick the wrong keywords, you could waste a lot of time, energy, and money going after a keyword that's just going to be junk, right? And what you want to do is is be very deliberate with that process. Uh and one thing that might help is think in terms of clusters. Okay? So, when you pick a keyword, let's say in this case, I'm doing AEO services in St. Louis. I'm going to go after this core topic of AEO or AEO services and I'm gonna build out many supporting assets around this topic. I'm not just going to go after this once and then move on to, you know, St. Louis link building services, right? I'm not going to I'm not going to go that quickly. I'm going to go a mile deep on this cluster and then once I feel like I've exhausted that cluster to the fullest extent, then I move on to the next one. Okay, this is a mistake I see all the time. people bouncing from one, you know, topic to the next without fully covering that topic. You have to absolutely cover it all the way. So, this is actually a really good keyword uh to to finish off here because you'll see zero search volume. Okay, but if we actually look AEO services, all right, and this is why localized keywords are tricky. But if we go in here and we look at AEO services, we'll see 210 searches. Now, this is national national, you know, volume, but even national volume isn't accurate. What you really want to be looking at is this. How much is this keyword topic or how much is this service offering or idea growing year-over-year, okay? Because there's an obvious trend going on now, right? It's slow, but it's beginning to grow. So, you're not going to find volume for a keyword like this because it's so new. Doesn't mean people aren't searching it, though. And that's why when I see stuff like this, I get really excited because I know when I I start to look at the search results, this is why having that kind of keyword-rich uh highlighting here is so important. But check this out. We look up AEO services. Okay, check this out. Not a single competitor, not even one is targeting this keyword right now. Not a single one. Right? So, right this second, I could go and build an asset, boom, get it published, start ranking, start getting that leverage, start getting those clicks, and then it becomes really, really hard for the competitors to catch up because once you've you've already started to rank, you start to get all the positive signals, which we know uh helps you solidify rankings even better. Okay, so this is why these zero volume keywords are so powerful and this is why, you know, you got to jump on them. Jump on them fast. Especially if you're an agency, you got to start going after these keywords. So, hope that helps. Uh, if you like this video, as always, please like it. I got a lot of a lot of cool videos coming here very soon. So, uh, so anyway, subscribe, uh, to get first access. Thank you so much for watching.